ID	Label	Text
376	10	Hamas agrees with Egypt on tighter border security: Security and humanitarian issues were discussed by the two sides, marking a thaw in the Egypt-Hamas relationship. Egypt has reportedly offered to provide electricity to Gaza to relieve part of its humanitarian crisis in return for Hamas agreeing to several security measures. The Hamas delegation, headed by the movement’s new Prime Minister Yahya Sinwar, returned to the Gaza Strip on Monday after nine days of what they said was constructive meetings with Cairo officials. Egypt agreed to fund Gaza’s sole power plant, after it was shut down in April as a result of heavy taxes levied by the Palestinian Authority on diesel fuel. In return, Hamas would tighten its security on the Rafah border. According to Hamas leader Mahmoud Zahhar, the movement had asked to meet with their Egyptian counterparts before the GCC crisis began. “We agreed, and this is as much to our benefit as it is to theirs, to separate our borders to prevent the smuggling of drugs and weapons,” Zahhar said. READ MORE- Hamas' political document: What to expect “The delegation also discussed humanitarian issues such as freedom to travel through the Rafah border,” Zahhar told Al Jazeera. Hamas official Musheer al-Masri told Al Jazeera that Egyptian officials had promised "practical steps to ease the siege on the Palestinian people".
179	9	Tennessee's refugee resettlement lawsuit dismissed by federal judge: CLOSE A Nashville teacher spoke out on Facebook against Trump's temporary immigration ban saying he should visit her class where her refugee students proudly say the pledge of allegiance every morning. Shelley Mays and Jason Gonzales A federal judge has dismissed Tennessee's lawsuit against the federal government over refugee resettlement. (Photo: Joel Ebert / The Tennessean) NASHVILLE — A federal judge Monday dismissed Tennessee's lawsuit against the federal government over refugee resettlement. In the lawsuit, the state alleged the federal government violated the 10th Amendment, which says the federal government possesses only the powers delegated to it by the U. S. Constitution and that all other powers are reserved for the states. Tennessee charged that the federal government was not complying with the Refugee Act of 1980. The federal refugee act was designed to create a permanent procedure for the admission of refugees into the U. S. MORE: Federal government asks for dismissal of Tennessee refugee lawsuit In the lawsuit, the state argued Tennessee was facing a threat of losing nearly $7 billion in Medicaid funds if it refused to resettle refugees. Despite the state opting out of the resettlement program, refugees have continued to be sent to Tennessee after the federal government appointed Catholic Charities of Tennessee to administer resettlement efforts.
354	0	Lower Merion HS Team Dons Warm Ups Expressing Support For Muslims, Refugees, Immigrants: 5 Best Ski Lodges In The U. S. A look at five of the very best ski lodges in the United States. Five Must-See Destinations In ParisWithin the 41 square miles of Paris, France there are over 60 main attractions for visitors to discover ranging from Museums, Churches, Monuments and Squares as well as examples of contemporary and traditional architecture. This is far too many sites for the average tourist to attempt to visit during a short stay in the city of lights. Thus a list of the five most famous and must see attractions is in order.
385	3	Six months of hate: how anti-immigrant sentiment is affecting Latinos in the United States: Six months of hate: how anti-immigrant sentiment is affecting Latinos in the United States Since the presidential election, Univision has received nearly 200 reports of hate and bias perpetrated against our readers and viewers, who have been the victims of racist slurs and harassment, intimidation, vandalism and even assault. In November, this family's home was vandalized with racist messages: "USA, USA," and "GO BACK. " In November, this family's home was vandalized with racist messages: "USA, USA," and "GO BACK. " Univision Marvin del Cid wakes up to find the words "fu**ing Mexicans, get out" spray painted on the side of his trailer. Dreamers Justino Mora, Iván Ceja and Belen Sisa endure weeks of threatening messages — and even death threats — online after posting on social media about being undocumented. Kids plead with their parents not to send them to school after chants of "build the wall. " In recent months, hate incidents and hate crimes have targeted Latinos around the country, in small towns and big cities, coast-to-coast. Though the weeks immediately before and after the presidential election saw the most reports, incidents have continued at a steady tick. Lea esta nota en español.
378	8	Trump And Sessions Send Warnings To Migrant Caravan Of 500 People Approaching U.S. Border: As a caravan of 500 migrants near the border, the U. S. sends warnings to the asylum-seekers. As a group of about 500 migrants from Central America quickly approach the U. S. border, President Donald Trump and Attorney General Jeff Sessions have sent stern warnings to the caravan. Although it’s legal to seek asylum, it’s illegal to cross into the country without going through the asylum process. As reported by NBC News, Sessions pointed out that Mexico was going to allow the migrants to stay in their country, but that they declined the offer to continue their journey north. He then made a statement regarding the asylum process. “Let today’s message be clear: Our nation has the most generous immigration system in the world, but this is a deliberate attempt to undermine our laws and overwhelm our system. There is no right to demand entry without justification. Smugglers and traffickers and those who lie or commit fraud will be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law. ” Asylum is granted to people who have suffered persecution or have good reason to believe they will suffer persecution according to their race, religion, or nationality.
80	7	Ship carrying 60 migrants arrives in Spain after being refused entry by Italy, Malta: BARCELONA, SPAIN—A rescue ship carrying 60 migrants arrived Wednesday in a Spanish port after being refused entry by Italy and Malta, the second time in a month that a humanitarian group has been forced to travel for days to unload people rescued in the central Mediterranean. The Italian government is blocking private rescue boats that it blames for encouraging human traffickers to launch unseaworthy boats loaded with migrants toward Europe. A doctor takes the temperature of migrants aboard the Open Arms aid boat, of Proactiva Open Arms Spanish NGO, after arriving at the port of Barcelona, Spain on Wednesday. The aid boat sailed to Spain with 60 migrants rescued on Saturday in waters near Libya, after it was rejected by both Italy and Malta. ( Olmo Calvo / The Assoicated Press ) But the aid groups deny having any link to smugglers in Libya or elsewhere, and say they are being forced to leave unattended the busy migrant sea transit route where deaths are mounting. The Open Arms rescue ship completed a four-day journey to Barcelona, in northeastern Spain, after it saved 60 people Saturday from a rubber boat floating in waters north of Libya.
63	7	Turkey to ask EU for rest of €3bn refugee aid: Ankara will ask the European Union about the remainder of a €3 billion ($3. 69 billion) fund intended for Syrian refugees during talks in Bulgaria next week, Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan said on Monday. Turkey has accepted 3. 5 million refugees from Syria, and the EU is already spending €3 billion to help them as part of a 2016 deal to curb migration into Europe. However, the Turkish president says “the promises made to us have not been kept. ” The EU states said they would give €3 billion plus another €3 billion of support, “but so far €850 million have entered our safe,” Erdogan said. “If you’re going to give that money, then do it. This nation has pride and you can’t toy with our pride.
167	6	Young refugees find safe haven in Boy Scouts: By Thomas Peipert, Associated Press EVERGREEN — Boy Scouts Jean Tuyishime and Moise Tuyikunde sit around a crackling campfire under a canopy of stars in Colorado’s Rocky Mountains, joking and teasing each other as adolescent brothers tend to do. Only two and a half years ago, they were a world away living at the crowded Gihembe refugee camp, built on a sprawling and dusty expanse of land in northern Rwanda. The brothers were born in the camp after their parents fled violence in 1996 in what was then known as Zaire. They relocated with their family to the Denver area in 2014, and they gradually assimilated into their new surroundings, learning to speak enough English to get by and signing up for a quintessential American experience — Boy Scouts. But the troop Jean, 15, and Moise, 12, joined is not like many others in the United States. Troop 1532 is composed almost entirely of refugees who hail from far-flung places like Burma, Rwanda and Nepal. At campouts, traditional American food like hot dogs and trail burgers is replaced by fish head stew, fire-roasted corn and Chatpate, a popular Nepalese street snack. S’mores are still a staple.
393	8	She's running the Boston Marathon to raise money for Syrian refugees: Story highlights She is the daughter of Syrian immigrants She's also from Michigan, home to large number of Syrian refugees (CNN) Rahaf Khatib has run six marathons in the last two years. On Monday, she'll run her seventh -- the Boston Marathon -- for Syrian refugees. The 33-year-old runner is the daughter of Syrian immigrants and from Michigan, a state with one of the highest number of Syrian refugees in the country. For her, raising money for refugees was a response to a "deep need" that she says she saw within her community. So far she's raised $16,000 "Where I live, it's a crisis," Khatib explained, "I personally as a stay-at-home mom couldn't contribute financially and I felt like I had to help. " So, she decided to help by running.
166	8	Australia toughens foreign worker visas, says Australian jobs for Australians: Australia will abolish a temporary work visa popular with foreigners and replace it with a visa requiring better English-language and work skills, Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull (left) said on Tuesday. [SYDNEY] Australia will abolish a temporary work visa popular with foreigners and replace it with a visa requiring better English-language and work skills, Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull said on Tuesday. Mr Turnbull rejected suggestions the visa policy change was in response to far-right political parties, such as One Nation, demanding more nationalistic policies. But in a Facebook announcement Mr Turnbull said: "Our reforms will have a simple focus: Australian jobs and Australian values. " Mr Turnbull said the visa change would attract better skilled workers and see Australians employed over cheap foreign workers brought in under the old 457 visa programme. "We are an immigration nation, but the fact remains- Australian workers must have priority for Australian jobs," he said. "We'll no longer allow 457 visas to be passports to jobs that could and should go to Australians. " The 457 visa was designed to fill Australia's skills shortage and allow holders to bring members of their family to Australia on 457 secondary visa.
487	3	U.S. Claims Immigrants Held at Guantanamo Are “Worst of the Worst.” Their Families Say They’re Being Unfairly Targeted: The military planes departed from Texas in quick succession, eight flights in as many days. Each one carried more than a dozen immigrants that the U.S. alleged are the “worst of the worst” kinds of criminals, including members of a violent Venezuelan street gang. Since Feb. 4, the Trump administration has flown about 100 immigrant detainees to the U.S. naval base in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, a facility better known for having held those suspected of plotting the 9/11 terrorist attacks.
78	9	Migrants in Italy 'targeted' in drive-by shooting (VIDEO): A number of foreign nationals have been targeted in a drive-by shooting in the Italian city of Macerata, with police suggesting the attack may be racially motivated. Several people were left injured following a shooting spree on Via dei Velini and Via Spalato, reported La Repubblica. One man has now been arrested in connection with the Saturday morning attack, according to police. Italian police have confirmed that all the victims are of foreign descent, following suggestions in the Italian press that the shootings were racially motivated, with at least four of the victims said to be African migrants. #Macerata i feriti accertati sono di nazionalità straniera. Subito soccorsi sono ora in ospedale pic. twitter. com/T9Afnp1aWo — Polizia di Stato (@poliziadistato) February 3, 2018 Corriere is reporting that one police line of inquiry is that it could be a revenge attack for the death of Pamela Mastropietro. The 18-year-old’s dismembered body was recently found in two suitcases on the outskirts of the city. A 29-year-old man from Nigeria has been charged with her murder, reported ANSA news. Earlier, Macerata Mayor Romano Carancini announced a shut down of schools and offices while the armed assailant remained at large.
421	9	Libya: Repatriation of Migrants in Libyan Detention Centers Begins: The International Organization for Migration has begun the voluntary repatriation of thousands of West African migrants being held in detention centers in Libya under abusive conditions. IOM plans to repatriate a total of 15,000 African migrants by the end of the year. Most come from Nigeria, Guinea, Mali and Senegal. The government of Niger has agreed to act as a country of transit for the migrants. Those who arrive at the airport in Niamey are registered by the International Organization for Migration and transported to their homes of origin. An IOM charter flight carrying 504 Nigerians, including women and young children, arrived in Niamey on Thursday. IOM plans seven additional daily charter flights from Tripoli, each carrying about 500 Nigerian migrants. The organization says another chartered flight arrived in Guinea's capital on Thursday, carrying 167 of the country's nationals. Returning in great distress Agency spokesman Leonard Doyle says people are returning home in great distress after having endured months of torture, overcrowding and other forms of ill-treatment in the Libyan detention centers. Doyle tells VOA it is very difficult to stop African migrants from trying to reach Europe. He criticizes Facebook and other social media for allowing criminals to spread lies and entice young people to make this sometimes-fatal journey.
226	7	Dog Whisperer' Cesar Millan illegally crossed US border: Getty Images Cesar Millan discussed his experience coming to America with his longtime friend Jada Pinkett Smith on her Facebook show Red Table Talk. The dog whisperer shared his story of crossing the border when he was 13. He dreamed of being "greatest dog trainer in the world" and of being on TV. His father gave him $100 and it was all he had to get across the border. "Death is more likely than jumping it," Millan said of crossing the border. "It's not a piece of cake. I'm respectful about it. I know I broke a boundary and a rule. But it was for a dream. " Millan first met Pinkett Smith when she was just 19-years-old. She told him he needed to learn to speak English if he wanted to be on TV. He credits her with encouraging him to learn English and sending a tutor to his house to teach him the language. Advertisement The dog whisperer started his career cleaning kennels. "Those are the jobs we immigrants get," he said. He quickly developed a dog-walking business in the Los Angeles neighborhood of Inglewood. The Los Angeles Times wrote about Millan's business and helped it really take off.
350	8	Illegal immigrants urged to leave Saudi Arabia before June 25: According to the Ghana Embassy in Riyadh, it has come to the notice of officials of the Embassy that many Ghanaians illegally resident in Saudi Arabia were not heeding to the call to take advantage of the Amnesty granted by the Saudi government to leave without penalty. Ghanaian illegal immigrants living and working in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia have been advised to take advantage of the 90 days general amnesty put forward by the Saudi government and leave the country before it expires on June 25, 2017. A statement issued and signed by Marcel Domayele, the Acting Head of Mission said Ghanaians who fail to take advantage of the Amnesty could be arrested, detained and fined for non- compliance with the country’s laws. It said the Embassy was still processing Emergency Travel Certificates and therefore urged Ghanaian residents to take advantaged. The statement said the Embassy had gathered that, “False rumours by some died hard illegal Ghanaians and their cohorts are doing the rounds that the amnesty directive by the governmentof Saudi Arabia is fake.” “Subsequently, such illegal Ghanaian illegal immigrants are digging in their heels to continue to stay in Saudi Arabia at all cost only to soon turn into consular nightmare for the Embassy.” “Indeed, they are on record as stated that unless and until they see the faces of Embassy officials in WhatsApp videos circulating and urging them to leave under the amnesty, they will never believe it, let alone appear for Emergency Travel Certificates.
407	7	Syrian asylum seeker planned ISIS attack, German prosecutors say: A Syrian man has been arrested in Germany on suspicion of seeking 180,000 euros ($190,000) from the Islamic State group (ISIS) to buy vehicles that he intended to use for one or several bomb attacks, authorities said Monday. The 38-year-old, who came to Germany in late 2014 as an asylum-seeker, was arrested on Saturday in Saarbruecken, close to the French border. He is accused of collecting money to be used by him or someone else to carry out murder. Prosecutors accuse him of contacting someone in Syria “who he knew was in a position to obtain ISIS money for terror financing” last month via the Telegram encrypted communication service. The suspect allegedly asked for 180,000 euros so that he could buy and repaint vehicles that he intended to fit out with explosives before driving them into crowds. The case against him was bolstered by an informant who went to Germany’s Federal Criminal Police Office, chats on the suspect’s smartphone and his own statements, “insofar as they can be followed,” prosecutors said in a statement. The Syrian is alleged to have told the financier that each vehicle would cost 22,500 euros ($23,500), and that 400 to 500 kilograms (882 to 1,100 pounds) of explosives would be placed in each car, they added.
323	8	Plan to triage asylum seekers stalled by Ontario provincial election: Teresa Wright, The Canadian Press OTTAWA -- A plan to "triage" asylum seekers crossing the Canada-U. S. border illegally, in an effort to move some migrants out of Quebec and into Ontario, has stalled because Ontario is in the midst of a provincial election. Federal Transport Minister Marc Garneau says Ontario civil servants have been working on details of the plan with the federal government and Quebec, but nothing can be finalized until a new provincial government is in place. "There's a lot of very hard work being done by civil servants who work for Immigration Ontario to look at the whole issue of the triage, which is more than just a reception centre. It's the whole process of absorbing people who want to go to Ontario. And that entails resources -- financial resources, and other kinds of resources, manpower resources," Garneau told reporters Wednesday. "There is an election going on and, when it's all in place, there will be a requirement to get the new government of Ontario, whatever that government is, to sign onto that. " The ad hoc intergovernmental task force on irregular migration met Wednesday evening to discuss the ongoing issue of illegal border crossers and how to address pressures facing Quebec, where the vast majority of irregular migrants are arriving.
62	9	Italian coast guards rescue migrants as vessel capsizes in the Mediterranean Sea: 63 migrants were rescued from the Mediterranean Sea by the Italian coast guard on Monday. Around 1000 migrants have been rescued in the Meditteranean in the last few days as calm weather conditions made it easier for vessels to depart. According to the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, 8296 migrants have arrived in Italy by sea in 2018.
165	2	As India marks 70 years of partition, memories fresh of border bloodshed: By Sunil Kataria AMRITSAR, India (Reuters) - India's independence from British colonial rule coincided with the partition of the subcontinent into two separate countries, setting off unprecedented communal carnage on both sides of the hastily created border. A mass migration followed, marred by violence and bloodshed, as about 15 million Muslims, Hindus and Sikhs, fearing discrimination, swapped countries in an upheaval that cost more than a million lives. During the chaotic transition, train cars full of bodies arrived at railway stations in the twin cities of Lahore and Amritsar in the province of Punjab, which was split roughly down the middle at partition on Aug. 14, 1947. As India prepares to mark 70 years of independence on Aug. 15, families who witnessed the death and destruction during partition recalled the tales of horror. Brothers Santa and Niranjan Singh were lucky to survive the crossing from their village of Bhasin on the Pakistani side of the new border to their current home in Sarangra in India. Santa, then aged 15 or 16, says everyone was baying for blood. People were running around with knives, swords and guns. Up to a dozen people from their village were killed in the madness, Santa recalls, saying they carried an injured brother across the border after he was shot through the head.
200	10	Afghan refugees coming to California struggle with PTSD: SACRAMENTO – California’s capital has emerged as a leading destination for Afghan refugees who were awarded special visas because of their service to coalition forces in the war. But life in the United States for them has proven a constant struggle. These former translators, engineers and doctors awarded Special Immigrant Visas must start over in bug-infested, low-rent apartments with minimum-wage jobs while dealing with PTSD and other health problems, the Sacramento Bee reported. More than 2,000 such visa holders and their family members have settled in Sacramento since October 2010, and many of them say they are struggling with anxiety and depression that have developed or been greatly exacerbated by their struggles in the United States. They say they feel helpless and abandoned, lacking decent jobs, housing or an understanding of U.S. culture. One of them is Faisal Razmal, a former interpreter for U.S. soldiers battling the Taliban in Afghanistan who was shot in the face in front of his Sacramento apartment in August 2015 by an assailant wielding a flare gun. A neighborhood teenager and alleged member of a gang has been charged and is awaiting trial. Razmal, 28, who lost the sight in one eye after the attack, said he feels like he also lost a piece of his soul.
368	9	Drug catapult found attached to Mexican side of US border fence: Following up on a tip by the U. S. Border Patrol, Mexican authorities in the border town of Agua Prieta seized a catapult being used to throw bundles of marijuana and possibly other drugs over the border to Douglas, Arizona. ‘THEY COME EVERY DAY’: BORDER TOWN RESIDENTS FACE DAILY THREAT FROM TRAFFICKING Expand / Contract The catapult was fixed to the top of the fence. (U. S. Customs and Border Protection) Agents patrolling the Douglas area last week said they sensed suspicious activity when a group of men started to run away as they were approaching. When the agents got to the south side of the border fence they discovered the catapult system attached to it. Two bundles of marijuana weighing more than 47 pounds combined were found nearby. AT BORDER PATROL, TRUMP LIFTS MORALE THAT WAS AT AN ALL-TIME LOW There was no report of arrests associated with the Feb. 10 incident. In recent years, smugglers have been known to shoot bundles of drugs over the border with devices such as air-powered cannons and catapults. Back in September, Mexican authorities seized a modified van that was apparently used for this purpose – it had an air compressor, a gas engine, a storage tank and an approximately 3-meter metal tube described as a “homemade bazooka.
135	9	Syrian rebels, civilians leave Lebanon border area for home: BEIRUT — The media arm of Lebanon's militant Hezbollah group says hundreds of Syrian rebels and civilians have started leaving the Lebanon-Syria border area after a deal was reached for their departure. The Central Military Media says buses carrying members of the Levant People's Brigades rebel group started moving on Monday from the badlands of the Lebanese border town of Arsal in the direction of the Syrian village of Fleeta. The evacuation comes nearly two weeks after more than 7,000 Syrians, many of them al-Qaida-linked fighters and their families, left Arsal, following an offensive by Hezbollah.
267	9	Abe: Japan planning for refugees in event of Korean crisis: Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe speaks during an Audit and Oversight of Administration Committee session at the lower house of Parliament in Tokyo Monday, April 17, 2017. Abe said Monday that Japan's government is drawing up contingency plans in case a crisis on the Korean Peninsula sends an influx of refugees to Japan. Abe told a parliamentary session that the government is formulating measures including protecting foreigners, landing procedures, building and operating shelters, and screening asylum seekers. (Yoshinobu Shimizu/Kyodo News via AP) TOKYO (AP) — Prime Minister Shinzo Abe said Monday that Japan's government is drawing up contingency plans in case a crisis on the Korean Peninsula sends an influx of refugees to Japan. Abe told a parliamentary session that the government is formulating measures including protecting foreigners, landing procedures, building and operating shelters, and screening asylum seekers. Abe's disclosure came in response to a question that had been occasionally asked in the past but is now more realistic than ever with North Korea's missile capability rapidly advancing and tension with the U. S. rising. The government has been also working on evacuation plans for about 60,000 Japanese from South Korea in case of a crisis.
358	7	American border patrol agents stopping and boarding Canadian vessels: spokesman: Michael MacDonald, The Canadian Press GRAND MANAN, N. B. -- A little-known cross-border dispute that has simmered between Canada and the United States since the late 1700s is now approaching the boiling point. In the past two weeks, at least 10 Canadian fishing boats from New Brunswick have been intercepted by U. S. Border Patrol agents while fishing in the disputed waters around Machias Seal Island, a spokesman for the fishermen says. Laurence Cook, chairman of the advisory board for Lobster Fishing Area 38, said Wednesday that some Canadian vessels were boarded by American agents who asked about possible illegal immigrants. "There's been a bit of a misunderstanding there somewhere," Cook said in an interview. "They're in international waters, so border patrol shouldn't be boarding Canadian vessels. " Machias Seal Island, which is about 19 kilometres southwest of Grand Manan Island and east of Maine, is in a disputed area known as the Grey Zone, where lobster fishermen from both Canada and the United States have long fished side by side. The small island is a flat, treeless piece of rock, which includes a large colony of puffins and a lighthouse that is manned by two Canadian lightkeepers year-round.
59	5	Still A Trickle, But Refugees Sick Of Exile Return To Syria: (AP) – A small but growing number of refugees have come back to Syria from among the more than 5. 4 million who fled since the civil war erupted in 2011. So far, they number in the tens of thousands, including some who made the arduous journey to Europe. The United Nations says the country is still not safe and even in parts where fighting has stopped, cities have suffered massive destruction. In early 2016, Ammar Maarawi bolted, desperate to escape Syria’s terrors. He paid smugglers and endured a dangerous sea crossing to Greece and an exhausting journey by train, bus and foot through Europe. Now, the 36-year-old is back home in Aleppo. He returned last summer. Depressed, homesick and dreading another winter, he couldn’t bear life in the German city of Suhl.
214	3	The migrant surge on the border isn't a crisis, it's just a fiasco: Everybody stay calm, everything’s under control. As Canadian Forces teams were busy building a tent village last week to accommodate a surge of mostly Haitian asylum claimants crossing the border from upstate New York into Quebec near Saint-Bernard-de-Lacolle, that’s what we were still being told by Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, Immigration Minister Ahmed Hussen and Quebec Premier Premier Philippe Couillard. Relax. We can handle it. Of course we can handle it. Even if each of the 60,000 Haitians in the United States who are currently counting down the days to their deportation orders decides to head north and walk across the porous Canadian border into Quebec, we would be able to handle it. Canada’s shambolic immigration and refugee system, with all its false boasts of orderly righteousness and its make-believe coherence, will continue to trundle along in its mostly unintelligible, sometimes brazenly corrupt and ordinarily nonsensical fashion. So yes, stay calm. The Quebec asylum-seeker surge is not yet even close to a crisis. It’s just a fiasco. It’s business as usual. And everything is definitely not under control. The northbound Haitians are not mysteriously unaware that two years ago, Canada ended the same temporary status that the United States offered Haitians following their country’s devastating 2010 earthquake—a status the Trump administration is now determined to replace with deportation orders by January.
488	5	“We Will Fight Back”: Aid Workers Fear Closing a Camp on the Arizona Border Will Endanger Migrants Pastor Randy Mayer skillfully maneuvers his SUV over rough dirt roads, dodging giant potholes and jostling up steep inclines in the predawn darkness. The rugged terrain in this remote stretch of the Arizona-Mexico border is familiar territory. Mayer, co-founder of the Green Valley-Sahuarita Samaritans, a nonprofit that provides humanitarian aid to migrants, has traveled here for nearly 25 years.
77	8	World Bank Says Climate Change Could Create 140 Million Migrants by 2050: A new report by the World Bank shows that the effects of climate change could force 140 million people to move within their countries by 2050. The report looked at three developing regions of the world — sub-Saharan Africa, South Asia and Latin America — and found that unless urgent action is taken, the regions will likely have to deal with tens of millions of so-called climate migrants. Climate migrants are people who are forced to move within their country because of water scarcity, crop failure, rising sea levels and storm surges due to climate change. The report shows that with strong global efforts to cut greenhouse gas emissions and good development planning in each country, the number of climate migrants could be reduced dramatically — from a projected 140 million people to 40 million people by 2050. “We have a small window now, before the effects of climate change deepen, to prepare the ground for this new reality,” World Bank chief executive officer Kristalina Georgieva said about the new research. She said it is “important to help people make good decisions about whether to stay where they are or move to new locations where they are less vulnerable.
326	7	To Immigrants With Love' Murals Celebrate Immigrants in Boston: Painted on the brick exterior of Atlas Wines and Liquors in Boston’s Roslindale neighborhood is a colorful mural depicting Louis and Beatrice White, the store’s original owners. Russian immigrants who came to the United States in the early 1900s, the Whites’ smiling faces are surrounded by flowers and cursive text written in Spanish, Italian, and Yiddish. The mural reads,“You will always be welcome in the city of Boston. ” Commissioned as part of the “To Immigrants With Love” mural project, a collaboration with the national letter-writing campaign of the same name, the mural celebrates immigrants from both the past and present, and reflects Boston’s unwavering support of its immigrant communities. “It’s a pretty scary time for a lot of people right now,” said Katherine Copeland, the public art coordinator for the Mayor’s Office for Immigrant Advancement, which helped develop the campaign. “We wanted to inform the community and really humanize the immigration conversation. ” After seeing Stephen Powers’ “Love Letters to Philadelphia” mural project, Copeland realized that the best way to do this was through public art. “That’s what sparked the idea, I realized we could take the concept of ‘To Immigrants With Love’ one step further, for Boston,” Copeland said.
315	10	Denver Fund Will Pay for Lawyers to Defend Immigrants Facing Removal: On Monday, March 19, Denver launched a long-anticipated legal defense fund for immigrants with $385,000 in its coffers. The aim of the fund is to provide legal representation to Denver residents who are fighting removal orders or who have requested relief through avenues like Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, asylum applications, naturalization or certain visas. Mayor Michael Hancock formalized the fund through an executive order issued August 31, 2017, and originally appropriated $100,000 from the city budget. That fund was bumped up to $200,000 through a Denver City Council vote in November. More dollars have since been added through public and private sources including the Denver Foundation, the Rose Community Foundation and the Vera Institute of Justice. (The Vera Institute, which has helped with similar funds, including in New York, will provide Denver technical assistance and support. ) Using public dollars to provide legal representation to individuals in immigration cases is not unique to Denver. A handful of other cities, including San Francisco, Los Angeles and New York, already have such programs. A Vera Institute study found that after New York City provided universal legal representation, ten times as many immigrants there won their cases, which included deportation proceedings.
41	10	Trump wants 256 miles of border wall in Texas: President Donald Trump's administration plans to build 256 miles of new barriers on the Texas-Mexico border, according to a Democratic congressman who said he was briefed on the plan. U. S. Rep. Henry Cuellar, who represents a district that abuts the border in south Texas, said the $25 billion that Trump is seeking as part of a deal on a pathway for citizenship for "dreamers" — the undocumented immigrants brought to the U. S. as children — would fund construction of the new fencing and barriers. Cuellar said Department of Homeland Security officials presented the plan during a briefing to the House Appropriations subcommittee on homeland security, of which Cuellar is a member. The administration seeks $1. 6 billion in this year's budget for 60 miles of new fencing in Texas' Rio Grande Valley. The area has become the busiest route for illegal crossings. In the following years, DHS would seek to fund 66 additional miles of barriers in the area, Cuellar said, citing the briefing. DHS would also build 130 miles of barriers in the Laredo sector, effectively walling off all of south Texas. "A lot of this is going to be delayed for many, many years," Cuellar said, implying a showdown between the federal government and border landowners and property-rights activists.
73	7	NGO denounces migrant minors sleeping in Paris streets, blames authorities: A migrant sits by the canal as he awaits the evacuation of a large makeshift camp along the Canal Saint Denis, in northern Paris, France, May 30, 2018. EPA-EFE (FILE)/IAN LANGSDON A doll was left behind on a parapet overlooking the tents of the makeshift camp in the 19th district of Paris in Paris, France, Oct 31, 2016. EFE- EPA (FILE) /ETIENNE LAURENT A Non-Government-Organization (NGO) on Wednesday denounced hundreds of unaccompanied migrant minors were sleeping rough in the streets of the French capital and blamed authorities for denying social assistance, contrary to French regulations. Human Rights Watch (HRW) NGO presented a 57-page report titled: "Like a Lottery: Arbitrary Treatment of Unaccompanied Migrant Children in Paris” where it criticizes French authorities "arbitrary" procedures and "inordinate delays" in determining if these child migrants are under the age of 18, regardless of having identity papers or not.
320	1	I'm the great-great-great-great-grandchild of immigrants - but not everyone in my family wants to hear that history: One evening in mid March, I was part of a full-house audience at the local city council meeting in Eugene, Oregon. On the agenda was an ordinance to prevent the city and police from using its resources to arrest and detain people whose only offense is violating federal immigration laws. I can see how this kind of rule would make the job of law enforcement easier if entire sectors of the community were not afraid to speak to cops. Thirty-five people gave testimony, many of whom identified themselves as immigrants or the children or grandchildren of immigrants. I did not offer my own testimony, but I thought about my most recent ancestor to arrive from another country. His name was Johann. A German farmer and blacksmith, he built a house 11 miles from the house where I grew up in Alabama, and there he legally owned a few slaves. By the 1820s, my great-great-great-great-grandfather Johann and all other branches of my family tree were already in the southeastern United States. By the definitions in OMB Directive 15 — the federal standards for collecting data on race — I am white and non-Hispanic.
408	3	Pedophile Illegal Immigrant's Corpse Dumped Outside British Parliament: The corpse found slumped against the entrance to the Houses of Parliament in London, UK, has been identified as belonging to a notorious pedophile who had been deported from the country but had re-entered illegally and was receiving government assistance to integrate into society. Marcos Amaral Gourgel, 35, a former male model with dual Portuguese and Angolan citizenship, was convicted of sexually abusing a child in 2014. After a police investigation in which Gourgel was found in possession of child pornography, he was arrested on two counts related to child pornography and one count of child molestation. He was jailed and then deported from the UK. After returning to Portugal, Gourgel was allowed to walk free under the European Union’s lax pedophilia laws after a judge declared the former model was “not a threat to the local community. ” Investigators believe the convicted pedophile then took advantage of Europe’s open borders by illegally re-entering the UK and resuming life as though nothing had happened. The ministry of Portuguese communities abroad confirmed: “In 2014 he was deported to Portugal by the British authorities and assisted on his return. In 2016 we were made aware he had been deported again .
238	6	Hungary's police say its "border-hunters” squad is overrun with unsavory applicants: Hungary has fallen out of favor with human rights groups for responding to the refugee crisis with a razor-wire fence on its border with Serbia and later with Croatia to keep migrants out. But for all its efforts at enforcing draconian policies on asylum seekers, it’s struggling to find suitable candidates to patrol its border fence. The government announced plans to hire police units of “border hunters” (paywall) in August 2015, setting a target of 3,000 last year. These border guards would patrol the border alongside 10,000 police and soldiers. The new recruits will carry pistols, pepper spray, batons, and handcuffs. Despite a massive recruitment drive, Hungarian police told BBC News that “the name is part of the problem, as it attracts the wrong kind of applicant.” This isn’t due to a lack of interest, but because many of the applicants are unable to pass tests put in to weed out unsavory characters. In a country where xenophobia is running high under a conservative government, the police have, for instance, disabled comments on YouTube recruitment videos. Police officers told the BBC that only 1,000 of the 2,700 people who applied from August 2016 to January this year were accepted.
330	10	Liberia: Former NPFL Leader Convicted On 11 Counts of Immigration Fraud in the U.S.: Philadelphia — A jury has found Jucontee Thomas Woewiyu, former number two in the National Patriotic Front of Liberia, guilty on 11 counts of criminal immigration fraud. Report by Tecee Boley and Adrienne Tingba in Philadelphia and James Harding Giahyue in Monrovia At the end of the three-week trial, the jury of 8 men and 4 women took one day of deliberations to reach a verdict. They found him guilty on all counts related to persecution of Liberians during the war at the hands of the NPFL. On 5 counts related to his immigration interview and his failure to list the NPFL among his associations, the jury found him not guilty. One by one the charges were read to the court by the jury foreperson, and one after the other, the words repeated itself. 'Guilty. Guilty. Guilty. " Woewiyu looked serious as the counts were read. He closed his eyes at one point and then looked down. His son, Jucontee the second, ran from the courtroom after the last count was read. Woewiyu embraced other family and supporters in the room. He had a brief smile for them. His other children were not there.
31	9	New York City subway explosion arrest leads to discussion of immigration rules in US: NEW YORK (AP) — The arrest of a Bangladeshi immigrant accused of making a homemade pipe bomb and setting it off in the New York subway system has led to discussion of the nation’s immigration system, with President Donald Trump repeating his refrain that it needs to be overhauled in favor of more restrictions. What you should know: THE BOMBING SUSPECT Authorities have identified the bombing suspect as 27-year-old Akayed Ullah. Originally from Bangladesh, he arrived in the United States in 2011 and was living in Brooklyn. The Department of Homeland Security says he’s a lawful permanent resident of the U. S. HOW HE GOT HERE: Ullah came to the U. S. on an F43 visa, issued to him through his family connection to an American citizen. The American immigration system allows citizens to apply for certain relatives — spouses, children, parents, siblings and their spouses and minor children — to be allowed to come and live in the U. S. The visas fall under different preferences, or categories; siblings of U. S. citizens come in the fourth preference, the F4, and their children come under F43s. WHAT’S THE HISTORY? Since a law change in 1965 loosened what had been a very restrictive system, America’s immigration policy has been based around giving preference to people with advanced education or skills or those with family ties to U.
497	5	The U.S. Business Community Used to Be a Force for Immigration Reform. What Happened?: In 1996, a familiar Republican candidate ran for president calling himself an “America-first” populist, riling up his supporters by claiming that immigrants were “invading” our country. “I’ll build that security fence, and we’ll close it, and we’ll say, ‘Listen, José, you’re not coming in this time!’” shouted the candidate, Pat Buchanan, to raucous applause at an Iowa rally early that year. Anti-immigrant sentiment was simmering across the nation, and it was about to translate into federal policy.
39	6	Judge says Trump made 'vicious' anti-immigrant statements: NEW YORK (AP) — A federal judge in New York hearing two lawsuits challenging the cancellation of a program protecting some young immigrants from deportation has accused President Donald Trump of making "extreme" and "vicious" anti-immigrant statements. U.S. District Judge Nicholas Garaufis told Justice Department lawyers Tuesday he could not ignore Trump's "drumbeat" of statements and tweets about immigrants from Mexico and other countries. Garaufis is hearing lawsuits seeking to overturn the administration's decision to end the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program. The plaintiffs say the decision to end the program was motivated by racial animus against Latinos. Lawyers for the administration strongly deny the Republican president's decision was motivated by hatred. They say the DACA program was legally flawed. Trump has expressed sympathy for immigrants covered by the DACA program.
463	9	Donald Trump to sign executive order on reform of H-1B visa system: US President Donald Trump (File Photo) US President Donald Trump (File Photo) US President Donald Trump is set to sign an executive order that would tighten the process of issuing the H-1B visas and seek a review of the system for creating an ‘entirely new structure’ for awarding these visas, the most sought-after by Indian IT firms and professionals. Trump is scheduled to travel to Milwaukee, Wisconsin, the home state of House of Representatives Speaker Paul Ryan, to sign the ‘Buy American, Hire American’ Executive Order. This was a transitional step aimed at achieving a more skills-based and merit-based immigration system. The executive order would be signed a day after the US Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) announced that it has completed the computerised draw of lots from the 199,000 petitions it received for the Congressional mandated 65,000 H-1B visas for the fiscal year 2018 beginning October 1 this year. The lottery was held for the 20,000 H-1B visas for those applicants having higher education from US educational institutions. Opposing the traditional lottery system for H-1B visas, a senior administration official told White House reporters that these visas were being used by companies to bring in foreign workers at a low wage rate and displace local workers.
292	8	Immigrants Make Up More Than One Third of All Suicides in Israel: Immigrants account for about a third of all suicides in Israel every year, but many still lack access to emotional assistance in... subscribe now to get the full story Subscribe Log in Haaretz unlimited. Only 1$ for the first month
45	9	Trump plan would sharply change legal immigration: President Donald Trump's new immigration plan is stirring up controversy with its proposals on legal immigration. Much of the public debate to this point has been about young immigrants brought to this country as children illegally. But the plan's potential impact on legal immigration has sparked fierce Democratic opposition and appears it may sink chances for a bipartisan deal in Congress. The proposal outlined Thursday by the White House would end much family-based immigration and the visa lottery program, moves that some experts estimate could cut legal immigration into the United States nearly in half. The plan would also protect some 700,000 young immigrants from deportation and provide a pathway to citizenship, a top Democratic goal.
161	7	Migrants rescued from Sahara Desert: The plight of people as they try to escape war, famine and economic hardship and try to find a better life forces them to take riosks such as walking across the Sahara Desert in blazing heat. The story of this group is happier than many others. The group of 92 migrants was rescued by the Niger Army in the north of the country, already seriously dehydrated and on the verge of death. The group, including women and children, was abandoned by traffickers without food or water. One of the group died after being taken to a treatment center. Two weeks ago a group of 40 migrants died of thirst after their truck broke down on the route to Libya then across the Mediterranean. In this case the migrants were abandoned near a well and so the majority survived. The traffickers pack them into trucks like cattle with little water and often in the middle of the desert, they ask for more money and if they do not pay, they are abandoned. Tens of thousands make the perilous journey each year across the Sahara. How many bodies lie under the sands?
321	9	England Might Issue 'Barista Visas' to Keep Cafes Open After Brexit: One of the economic wrinkles that Brexit is posing to the British economy is that, without the help of immigrants, the entire service industry would basically shut down. Restaurants, bars, and coffee shops need employees to work, and turns out that UK citizens aren't all that interested in taking jobs in them. As Grub Street pointed out, just one applicant in 50 applying for a gig at a UK Pret a Manger is British. Pret's director of human resources, Andrea Wareham, told a British parliamentary committee that if the chain were forced to employ a British-only workforce, it would be almost impossible to find enough staff to keep their locations running. Now multiply that problem by every other fast casual chain, McDonald's franchise, community coffee shop, or neighborhood pub in the entire country, and you can see what kind of labor catastrophe could be on the horizon when Brexit takes effect. So, according to The Sun, Home Secretary Amber Rudd has hit upon a plan of issuing strict two-year "barista visas" to the country for EU workers. The plan is based on one currently in effect for residents of Australia, New Zealand, and Canada, dubbed the "Youth Mobility Scheme.
443	1	America Is Better Than Trump's Cruel Immigration Policies: The Trump administration’s new immigration policy of forcibly separating children from their parents when they show up at the border without documents is not only inhumane and un-American, but it also betrays President Trump’s complete ignorance of current immigration laws, the immigration issue and the naked political motive behind such a draconian and unprecedented move. Attorney General Jeff Sessions told the country the administration would start systematically separating children from their parents at the border, no matter if they came seeking asylum from certain death in their home countries. Sessions, however, erroneously couches the new policy in terms of it being a deterrent for those who seek to smuggle their children over the border. He said, “If you don’t like that then don’t smuggle children over our border. ” What Sessions is not telling the American people is that he is now arresting and separating every child and parent that appears at the border, even those who come legally by turning themselves in to the authorities, seeking asylum. These families are not “smuggling” their children over the border. They are availing themselves of an incredibly humanitarian American value — being able to seek protection from violence and persecution in another country.
342	10	President Trump on NYC Subway Bombing: 'End Chain Migration': President Donald Trump said in a statement that Monday's underground explosion near Manhattan's Port Authority Bus Terminal "highlights the urgent need for Congress to enact legislative reforms" on immigration. In the statement issued just before 5 p. m. , the president said Congress needs to end what he called "chain migration" and increase immigration security after police said Akayed Ullah -- a 27-year-old man of Bangladeshi descent with a last known address in Brooklyn -- detonated a crude explosive device in the tunnel between the Port Authority Bus Terminal and the Times Square/42nd Street subway station about 7:15 p. m. Monday. "First and foremost, as I have been saying since I first announced my candidacy for President, America must fix its lax immigration system, which allows far too many dangerous, inadequately vetted people to access our country," Trump said in the statement. Ullah is not a U. S. citizen but had attained permanent residency. He came to the country on Feb. 21, 2011 on a F43 family immigrant visa; A Department of Homeland Security spokesman said he benefited from "family chain migration. " "Today’s terror suspect entered our country through extended-family chain migration, which is incompatible with national security," Trump said in the statement.
84	8	Many Turkish diplomats, soldiers seeking asylum in Germany: At least 262 Turkish diplomats and army personnel have applied for asylum in Germany since a failed July coup that Turkey blames on supporters of a U. S. -based cleric, a spokeswoman for the German Interior Ministry said on Monday. The number of Turkish citizens seeking asylum in Germany rose dramatically after the failed coup and Turkey has warned its NATO ally to reject applications from soldiers it suspects of having links to exiled cleric Fethullah Gulen. Annegret Korff, a German Interior Ministry spokeswoman, said 151 applicants had diplomatic passports and 111 had no-fee passports, which are issued by governments to military personnel and other civil servants who are on official travel assignments. She did not specify whether the 262 also included diplomats' families, who would also have diplomatic status. "Those figures are not actually statistically sound because they are based on the voluntary statements of the asylum applicants," Korff told a regular government news conference, suggesting the real number could be higher. Tensions are running high between the two NATO allies ahead of a referendum in Turkey next month that proposes expanding the powers of President Tayyip Erdogan. Germany infuriated Turkey by cancelling several campaign rallies by Turkish ministers on German soil, drawing accusations from Turkey of "Nazi" tactics.
349	7	EU leaders complicit in torture of refugees and migrants, Amnesty says: Rights group claims EU is financing Libyan system that routinely acts in collusion with militia groups and people traffickers European leaders stand accused by Amnesty International of being knowingly complicit in the torture and exploitation of thousands of migrants and refugees by the EU-financed Libyan coastguard and officials running the country’s detention camps. In an attempt to stem the flow of people across the Mediterranean to Europe, the EU is financing a system that routinely acts in collusion with militia groups and people traffickers to “make money from human suffering”, a report from the human rights group claims. EU's policy of helping Libya intercept migrants is 'inhuman', says UN Read more Following the provision of ships, training and funding from the EU and Italy to the Libyan coastguard, the number of arrivals to Italy fell by 67% between July and November compared with the same period in 2016. Deaths at sea have been reduced commensurately. Yet Amnesty claims the coastguard and those to whom they hand over refugees, migrants and asylum seekers, are often acting in cahoots with criminal gangs and militia. Agreements between the coastguard and smugglers are signalled by markings on boats that allow specific vessels to pass through Libyan waters without interception, it is claimed.
122	9	Calais War Zone as 100+ Afghan, African Migrants Do Battle: At least five people suffered gunshot wounds and dozens were injured as violent clashes between Afghan and Eritrean migrants broke out in and around the French port city of Calais. The violence broke out around 3pm on Thursday afternoon when a brawl began between rival gangs of migrants from Afghanistan and Eritrea “armed with sticks and stones” near Calais Hospital. The fight, which lasted almost two hours, reportedly began with an Afghan migrant opening fire, AFP reported. Four Eritreans, aged between 16 and 18, received bullet wounds and are “in critical condition,” the local prefecture said. A fifth is also in “very serious condition” and was transported to the hospital in Lille, the authorities added, without disclosing the age and nationality of the injured. Three others suffered “multiple injuries. ” Shortly afterwards, over a hundred Eritreans “armed with sticks” charged at 20 Afghan migrants five kilometers (three miles) away from the first site, in the town of Marck, forcing police to intervene “to protect the Afghan migrants,” the local prefecture said, putting the number of Eritreans at 150 to 200. Another incident happened in the industrial area near the infamous ‘Jungle’ migrant camp, which was shut down in October 2016.
383	1	First photos of thugs who brutally beat up teenage asylum seeker released by police: Police have released photos of some of the thugs who brutally beat up an asylum seeker on the Shrublands estate. The mob attack in which Reker Ahmed was left with injuries which doctors feared might cause him to die shocked the nation. After 17 people were arrested, 14 were charged and following two trials seven have either pleaded guilty or been found guilty of offences in relation to the shocking episode of violence. The second trial concluded yesterday (Thursday) with George Jeffrey, 21, of Uvedale Close, New Addington, and Ben Harman, 21, of Akabusi Close, Addiscombe, both being found guilty of two counts of violent disorder. Their trial, which lasted three weeks, heard how Harman jumped out of his car to join in with the first of two attacks on Mr Ahmed, and kicked him while he lay on the floor. Prosecutor Ben Holt said Harman's car was “offering light to the attackers, like floodlights at a football pitch”. Harman, who on the night in question was wearing a baseball hat and carrying a “man bag”, then followed the group who chased 17-year-old Mr Ahmed and beat him in the second wave of the assault.
415	9	Arrests of illegal immigrants reportedly jumped 32 percent in Trump's first months: Arrests of illegal immigrants are reportedly up by one-third in the early weeks of the Trump administration, with U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) making more than 21,000 arrests. The Washington Post reported Sunday that the total, from January 20 through mid-March, jumped 32.6 percent from the same period one year ago, when there were more than 16,000 arrests. The report stated that most of the arrests were of convicted criminals, but noted that there were 5,441 arrests of non-criminal aliens, more than double the total from last year. Adam Housley reported this morning that ICE detainers – requests to local authorities to hold criminal aliens – are up 75 percent, to more than 22,000. In an interview on NBC’s “Meet the Press,” DHS Secretary John Kelly said the definition of “criminal” has not changed, “but where on the spectrum of criminality we operate has changed.” For example, he said ICE agents may move to deport an individual with multiple DUI offenses. He said in the past, those individuals would have been “unlikely” to be deported. “The law deports people. Secretary Kelly doesn’t. ICE doesn’t. It’s the United States criminal justice system that deports people,” he said.
290	6	Asylum Seekers in Israel Say New Law Robs Them of Wages: The new law mandating that employers of asylum seekers and labor migrants put aside 20 percent of workers’ salaries until they leave Israel has left employers confused, and labor advocates are saying that these workers are being penalized by more than the legally mandated 20 percent as a result. The law took effect on May 1, and states that all employers of people who entered the country illegally must deposit 20 percent of the person’s salary – which generally is minimum wage - into a special fund, to be given to the person when he or she leaves Israel. The employer is supposed to contribute an additional 16 percent. The funds will be kept at Bank Mizrahi Tefahot, which won a tender. The law is designed to encourage people to leave the country on their own accord, as well as to make employers pay these workers benefits. But in practice, it turns out that many employers are not aware of the law, or don’t know how much money to set aside, or how to do it. While the law states that the deposit will be determined based on the salary as calculated for severance pay, Kav LaOved (Workers Hotline) received evidence from workers indicating that the withholding was based on the entire salary, including travel reimbursement.
425	8	LAPD, Sheriff's Department Distance Officers From Federal Immigration Enforcement: The LAPD and the Sheriff's Department are putting new limits regarding their immigration policy as a result of the new Sanctuary State Law. Eric Leonard reports for NBC4 news on Friday, Feb. 2, 2018. (Published Friday, Feb. 2, 2018) The LAPD and Sheriff's Department are distancing officers from anything connected to federal immigration enforcement. A new Los Angeles Police Department Order instructs that officers should not question most people about their place of birth, though that changes if the person gets arrested. "Place of Birth" was a piece of information routinely collected and added to an LAPD database. ACLU senior staff attorney Michael Kaufman, who works on immigrants' rights issues, says the place-of-birth question could make it seem like local police were asking about a person's immigration status, and he says he worries that information could be accessed by outside agencies. "This obviously creates a lot of apprehension, on behalf of people interacting with the police, that they're being questioned about their immigration status, and potentially a record that could be used against them if that information was to be shared with immigration agencies," he said. While the LAPD appears to be the first large department to conform to SB-54's restrictions, Kaufman says other police agencies will have to do the same.
379	8	Hungary to recruit THOUSANDS of ‘BORDER-HUNTERS’ to defend border: Several high quality marketing videos showing border agents in helicopters and speed boats have been released to attract applicants by the nation’s border agency force. Viktor Orban the Hungarian Prime Minister told successful applicants they will “protect Hungary’s borders, Hungarian homes and be defending Europe”. GETTY*HATARVADASZ Viktor Orban is pouring resources into border patrols to stop migrants There is no terrorism here, there is no mass violence, there are no trucks being driven into crowds of people Viktor Orban, Hungarian Prime Minister He said: “There is no terrorism here, there is no mass violence, there are no trucks being driven into crowds of people. But please do not forget that this does not mean that such atrocities cannot happen to us Hungarians. ” New cadets will be asked to defend the 175km long Hungary-Serbia border fence. The border hunters will be tasked with stopping the migrants that cross the fence every night. HATARVADASZ Applications are still being accepted for the Hungarian border patrol units The border-hunters receive normal police training, including firearms use, with extra modules about Islam and other cultures they might come into contact with. Orban added: “The truth is that Europe would have been better off if it had not attacked Hungarian responses, which have proved to be viable and useful, and which have since been adopted by an increasing number of other countries.
134	6	No immigration deal near as Trump address, offer are panned: WASHINGTON (AP) — A bipartisan immigration deal between President Donald Trump and Congress is nowhere in sight. Democrats are disparaging Trump's State of the Union remarks as racially divisive, boosting partisan distrust. Trump's offer of "a down-the-middle compromise" stands no chance of passing the Republican-led Congress, with even GOP lawmakers demanding changes. It's unclear whether the two parties can reach an election-year pact protecting hundreds of thousands of young immigrants from deportation and sharpening border security. Even the timetable for resolving the dispute is slipping. There are only faint hopes that an agreement can be reached by Feb. 8, when a potential government shutdown would occur unless lawmakers approve spending legislation. No. 2 House Democratic leader Steny Hoyer says, "If the deadline is Feb. 8, we're not going to make it."
149	9	Man charged with marrying 6 women to evade immigration laws: WORCESTER, Mass. (AP) — A Massachusetts man has been charged with accepting money to marry six women to help them evade immigration laws. Federal prosecutors allege 57-year-old Peter Hicks, of Worcester, married the women from sub-Saharan African nations who were in the U.S. illegally between 2003 and 2013 and filed for immigration benefits for four of them. Authorities also allege that on at least one occasion, he was still married to one woman at the time of his marriage to another. He is also alleged to have recruited others to enter into fraudulent marriages. Hicks was released following an initial appearance in federal court in Worcester on Tuesday. He faces a maximum of five years in prison if convicted. His federal public defender did not return a call for comment.
483	6	An ICE Contractor Is Worth Billions. It’s Still Fighting to Pay Detainees as Little as $1 a Day to Work: The for-profit prison company GEO Group has surged in value under President Donald Trump. Investors are betting big on immigration detention. Its stock price doubled after Election Day.
384	8	US church puts Jesus family in ‘ICE detention’ to protest Trump’s immigration policies: Sitting in the heart of downtown Indianapolis, on the lawn where Christ Church Cathedral erects its Nativity scene every year, is the holy family. But there’s no manger, shepherds, wise men or angels; just a chain-link fence surrounding the couple and the newborn. Inside the fence, Mary sits on a wooden block, cradling baby Jesus in her arms as Joseph stands next to her looking down. Christ Church Cathedral, one of the oldest churches in Indianapolis, is protesting the detention of families under the Trump administration’s “zero tolerance” policy of prosecuting as many people as possible for crossing into the United States illegally. Justice Department lawyers said in a filing last week that families could be detained for longer than the 20-day limit required by a previous court settlement. The Rev. Stephen Carlsen, the church’s dean and rector, said the news prompted the church to create a display showing a “detained” holy family. Joseph and Mary were not any different from migrant families fleeing violence from their home countries, he said. The couple fled to Egypt after Herod ordered the execution of baby boys in Bethlehem, according to the Bible. “People forget what that scene means,” Carlsen told The Washington Post.
479	10	Immigration Protection Act Gets Out of Committee at Board of Legislators: WPCNR COUNTY CLARION-LEDGER. From the Westchester County Democratic Legislators. February 14, 2017: At last night’s Board of Legislators meeting, the Immigration Protection Act authored by Majority Leader Catherine Borgia (D-Ossining) and introduced by the Democratic Caucus passed its first test on the path to becoming law. Numerous members of the public came to the Board to publicly comment on their support for the Act and expressed hope that Legislators would do the same. The Act was referred to the Committees on Budget & Appropriations, Legislation, and Public Safety & Social Services. “This was the first step in passing this Act to ensure the humane treatment and safety of all Westchester residents becomes the law of the County,” said Majority Leader Borgia. “With all the news reports of immigration raids, even in New York, this Act is a step we must take to follow the law and make sure our County does not practice any type of discrimination. I thank Legislator Virginia Perez for her action to co-sponsor this bill; her voice is a welcome and needed one to help shepherd this bill to passage,” added Borgia. Also during last night’s meeting, Legislator Perez (above), the Board’s sole Latina legislator, added her name to the Act, bringing the total number of sponsors to eight.
429	7	New Bill Seeks Reform of Country's Immigration Detention System: A bill to reform the country's immigration detention system was introduced this week in the House of Representatives. The measure, the Dignity for Detained Immigrants Act, was introduced by Reps. Pramila Jayapal (D-Washington) and Adam Smith (D-Washington), and is co-sponsored by more than three dozen other members of Congress. “This bill is incredibly important for [Asian Pacific Islander] immigrants,” Jayapal told NBC News. “Detention and deportation is sometimes classified as a Latino problem and it’s just a misconception because increasingly we see APIs being detained across the country from just about every community.” Rep. Pramila Jayapal, D-Wash., speaks at a Congressional Tri-Caucus news conference on Capitol Hill in Washington, Wednesday, Sept. 27, 2017, on injustice and inequality in America. Andrew Harnik / AP The Dignity for Detained Immigrants Act would attempt to address standards and accountability for detention centers across the country, phase out private detention centers over a three-year period, have detention facilities be managed by the Department of Homeland Security (DHS), and reduce the number of people in detention centers, Jayapal said. More than three dozen civil society organizations have thrown their support behind the bill, including the Southeast Asia Resource Action Center (SEARAC) and Colectiva Legal del Pueblo.
422	6	Migrant caravan reaches U.S. border despite Trump threats: TIJUANA, Mexico — Hundreds of Central American migrants traveling through Mexico in a caravan began arriving in the border city Tuesday, with many still intent on seeking asylum despite fresh threats of prosecution and deportation from the Trump administration. Numerous tents were set up at the Movimiento Juventud 2000 shelter in Tijuana, just south of California, to house the migrants — who have said they are fleeing violence and persecution in their home countries — before they attempt to surrender at the U.S. Port of Entry. About 300 migrants are expected to sleep in the shelter before taking the last step of attempting to cross the border and possibly request asylum. It's the largest number of migrants taking part in the caravan to reach the border — about 50 members arrived late last week, Reuters reported. María, a 17-year-old from Honduras who arrived Monday with her one-year-old son, José Roberto, sought asylum at the U.S. border immediately. She was turned away, she said, and plans to try again. A Honduran asylum seeker, Maria, 17, with her son Jose Roberto in a Tijuana shelter near the U.S.-Mexico border.
120	1	The Border Fetish: An Unsustainable World Managed With an Iron Fist: At first, I thought I had inadvertently entered an active war zone. I was on a lonely two-lane road in southern New Mexico heading for El Paso, Texas. Off to the side of the road, hardly concealed behind some desert shrubs, I suddenly noticed what seemed to be a tank. For a second, I thought I might be seeing an apparition. When I stopped to take a picture, a soldier wearing a camouflage helmet emerged from the top of the Stryker, a 19-ton, eight-wheeled combat vehicle that was regularly used in military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan. He looked my way and I offered a pathetic wave. To my relief, he waved back, then settled behind what seemed to be a large surveillance display mounted atop the vehicle. With high-tech binoculars, he began to monitor the mountainous desert that stretched toward Mexico, 20 miles away, as if the enemy might appear at any moment. That was in 2012 and, though I had already been reporting on the militarization of the U. S. -Mexican border for years, I had never seen anything like it. Barack Obama was still president and it would be another six years before Donald Trump announced with much fanfare that he was essentially going to declare war at the border and send in the National Guard.
147	7	Transgender migrant from Honduras dies in U.S. custody: Transgender migrant from Honduras dies in U. S. custody A transgender Honduran woman, who was part of the caravan of Central American migrants that arrived at the U. S. border earlier this month, died in detention on Friday. Roxana Hernandez, 33, died in the custody of U. S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) at a hospital in Albuquerque, New Mexico, from what appeared to be cardiac arrest. Hernandez was first admitted to a hospital more than a week ago “with symptoms of pneumonia, dehydration, and complications associated with HIV,” according to a statement from ICE. Immigration officials identified the woman as Jeffry Hernandez, but LGBTQ rights advocates and caravan organizers said her name was Roxana. An ICE spokesman confirmed Tuesday that Hernandez was part of the caravan. Hernandez surrendered at San Ysidro Port of Entry between San Diego and Tijuana and asked for asylum on May 9, according to Pueblo Sin Fronteras, the immigration-rights group that organized the caravan. The organization said she was held for five days by U. S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) in a holding cell that is part of a facility many refer to as the “iceboxes” due to its temperature.
142	0	Thousands To Take Citizenship Oath In Los Angeles Ceremony: Best Pizza In Orange County By NeighborhoodOrange County pizza connoisseurs have a variety of options when seeking out a pie; from New York style to traditional Italian roots to create-your-own and unique twists on the classic dish, there is truly something for everyone.
362	10	Border Patrol seizes $1.5 million in cocaine near Temecula checkpoint: Border Patrol agents seized more than 100 pounds of cocaine with an estimated $1. 5 million value Tuesday, June 13, after a suspect attempted to elude a checkpoint inspection on the I-15 in Temecula, according to a U. S. Customs and Border Patrol news release. The 46-year-old man, who arrived at the checkpoint driving a 2000 Infinity QX4 SUV, was referred to a secondary inspection area, but the driver sped away. Agents stopped him after a pursuit into a residential area near Temecula Parkway. The suspect attempted to flee on foot but he was caught when an agent deployed a stun gun on him, the release stated. Agents discovered 37 bundles of cocaine stashed inside a speaker box and plastic container in the vehicle’s rear cargo area. The suspect was not identified by name. He was booked at a detention facility and will face state narcotics charges.
53	4	WATCH: Donald Trump boasts that Turkey attack proves him right on border wall: President-Elect Donald Trump held a New Year’s Eve party at his Mar-a-Lago estate in Florida where he gave a speech about his plans for the White House as he prepares to be sworn in on Jan. 20. A video obtained by the Palm Beach Daily News shows Trump boasting of his plans to build a border wall along the U. S. -Mexico border. He suggested that there is a need for the wall, especially after a club in Istanbul, Turkey was attacked by an armed gunman during New Year celebrations. In his speech, Trump said, “We’re going to have strong borders so that when people come into the country, they’re going to come into the country legally. This is the way we want it. ” “We will build a wall, you know that. We will build a wall,” he said to a cheering crowd. “And speaking of walls,” he continued, “In Turkey tonight — has anybody heard? ” “Big disaster took place in Turkey tonight,” he said. “Many, many, many people killed … It’s a horror show. So we’re going to get things running properly. ” Watch his remarks below via MSNBC.
131	3	Letters Describe Life in an Immigration Detention Facility: ‘They Treated Us as Though We Were Animals’: × Letters Describe Life in an Immigration Detention Facility: ‘They Treated Us as Though We Were Animals’ In the letter, she calls the facility “la perrera” — the kennel or dog pound — because of the chain-link cages she and others were held in. For eight days after she was captured near the US-Mexico border, she says she did not bathe or brush her teeth. She and other women slept on the floor under “aluminum paper” blankets, she says. “They treated us so horribly, as though we were animals,” she wrote in the letter, in which she called herself “anonimo,” anonymous. But worst of all was not knowing the fate of her daughter or son for 21 days after they were taken from her, she wrote. The account came via Grassroots Leadership, a nonprofit that describes itself as “a nationally recognized civil and human rights organization” that fights to “end prison profiteering, mass incarceration, and deportation. ” The group, which is circulating a petition to reunite separated families, posted the letter on its website on June 25 and followed it up on June 29 with several more accounts from women who had been separated from their children.
100	3	ISIS Infiltrates the Rukban Refugee Camp at Jordan-Syria Border: AL RUKBAN REFUGEE CAMP — Some 80,000 people are trapped in a scrub land of hopelessness in a forgotten corner of the Middle East. Huddling in the wind, walled in by desert sandbanks, they have been driven there by war. Abandoned by governments, they are preyed on by the very ISIS gunmen and suicide bombers they fled their homelands to escape. NBC News was given unique access to the area where Rukban straddles a rocky, arid no man’s land along the border linking Syria and Jordan — an important American ally, and a key member of the U. S. -led coalition against ISIS. A map showing the location of the refugee camp on the Jordan-Syria border. Google Officially, it is located in a demilitarized zone. However, the pilot of the Jordanian military helicopter used during a recent NBC News visit wouldn’t fly over it for fear of being shot down by ISIS cells in the camp. Brig. Gen. Sami Kafawin, commander of Jordan's army in the area, told NBC News that militants there “have whole weapons systems … small arms, RPGs, anti-aircraft. ” He added: “They consider the camp a safe haven.
188	10	Jisha rape, murder case: Kerala court convicts migrant labourer: December 12, 2017 12:41 IST A court in Kochi on Tuesday found a migrant labourer from Assam guilty of rape and murder of a 30-year-old Dalit law student in Kerala last year. Ernakulam Principal Sessions Court judge N Anil Kumar is likely to pronounce the quantum of punishment on Wednesday. Muhammed Ameerul Islam was found guilty under various sections of the Indian Penal Code including 302 (murder), 376 (Rape) 376 (A) (causing death or causes the woman to be in persistent vegetative state while committing rape). The accused, however, was not found guilty under 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence) and various sections under SC/ST (prevention of atrocities) amendment Act 2015. The Court had on December 6 completed the hearing in the case and posted it for Tuesday for pronouncement of judgment. Islam, a migrant labourer from Assam and the lone accused in the case, was charged with brutally raping and murdering the woman, a law student, at nearby Perumbavoor on April 28, 2016. He was booked under various sections of the IPC and Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Rules. As many as 100 witnesses were examined during the trial which commenced in April last.
5	9	Haitian asylum seekers crossing Quebec border from U.S. may head to Toronto, lawyer says: An immigration lawyer says as many as one in five Haitian asylum seekers crossing the U. S. -Canada border in Quebec may make their way to Toronto. Joel Etienne says while it's an estimate, the city is a big draw for the thousands of migrants leaving the U. S. behind. Officials say upwards of 700 people a day — a large percentage of whom are Haitian — have been streaming across the border at Saint-Bernard-de-Lacolle, Que. , before being taken into custody and sent to Montreal, where thousands are now staying at a temporary welcome centre at the Olympic Stadium. Toronto, meanwhile, has been dealing with an influx of newcomers all year. The number of refugees using the city's emergency shelter system is now more than double what it was last year, with an average of 1,223 people per night seeking help in July according to city staff. Etienne says there's a key difference between many of the Haitian asylum seekers arriving now and those fleeing places like Syria. Many, he said, were well-established in American cities, like Miami, and are only leaving because of the U. S. administration's threats to deport them back to Haiti.
101	6	Reaction to Trump's immigration offer casts doubt on a deal: WASHINGTON (AP) — President Donald Trump's State of the Union offer of a "down-the-middle compromise" on immigration did nothing to move Republicans and Democrats closer to a deal, as Democrats accused the president of lacing his speech with racially charged remarks and Republicans dug in on their demands. The reaction to Trump's high-profile overture suggested both parties were settling into a protracted tug-of-war. The standoff left serious doubt whether the two parties could reach an election-year pact to protect hundreds of thousands of young immigrants from deportation, sharpen border security and take other steps to curb immigration. The two parties had not even settled on a deadline for an agreement — a bad sign in an institution that rarely acts unless under pressure. "If the deadline is Feb. 8, we're not going to make it," No. 2 House Democratic leader Steny Hoyer of Maryland said Wednesday, noting a looming deadline for approving government funding to avoid another shutdown. "It's going to take work for us to build a consensus," Rep. Steve Scalise, R-La., the House GOP vote counter, said in an interview Tuesday. Scalise noted that Republicans took "weeks and weeks" to craft tax legislation last year.
205	4	Trump's asylum rule is already changing the border: On a gray morning, a group of Haitian migrants chatted idly on a quiet corner in downtown Tijuana, near the U.S. border, speaking French and eating Creole and exchanging cellphone chargers to use later in a nearby Starbucks. Among them was Rene Raphael, a 28-year-old former medical student. Like most of the roughly 4,000 Haitians now staying in shelters in Tijuana, Raphael has spent the past few years as a nomad. First, he fled Haiti, which suffered a devastating earthquake in 2010, for Brazil, where the country’s construction boom provided work. When Brazil’s economy cratered last year, Raphael and his pregnant wife made a harrowing, two-continent trek north to the U.S.-Mexico border. Their goal? Asylum. Their hurdle? The same executive order that calls for building a big border wall. Legal or loophole? Little noticed in his flurry of immigration-related executive orders, President Donald Trump has pushed to change the way the United States handles asylum, a designation sought by a growing number of migrants looking to enter the U.S. Traditionally, asylum is granted (or not) to people who fear persecution in their home country based on things like religion, nationality and politics.
23	8	Trump Gives Orders to DHS as Mexican Migrant Caravans Make Their Way to the Border: President Donald Trump announced on Monday that he has directed the Department of Homeland Security to block a large group of migrants from Central America seeking to enter the U. S. that have begun arriving at the U. S. -Mexico border. “Despite the Democrat inspired laws on Sanctuary Cities and the Border being so bad and one sided, I have instructed the Secretary of Homeland Security not to let these large Caravans of people into our Country. It is a disgrace. We are the only Country in the World so naive! WALL,” Trump tweeted. He also repeated his position that negotiations between the U. S. and Mexico concerning the North American Free Trade Agreement may hinge on Mexico agreeing to prevent the flow of people from Central America through its country. “Mexico, whose laws on immigration are very tough, must stop people from going through Mexico and into the U. S. We may make this a condition of the new NAFTA Agreement. Our Country cannot accept what is happening! Also, we must get Wall funding fast,” the president wrote. Last week, Reuters reported a group of 50 Central American migrants reached Tijuana, Mexico, just south of San Diego and have requested asylum in the U.
223	7	Asylum seekers face tough new deportation rules for foreign criminals: GETTY - STOCK IMAGE Tough action to speed up the removal of foreign crooks is being proposed today Appeals against deportation lodged by criminals from overseas would be dealt with by the courts within 28 days. The crackdown would also apply to asylum seekers who lose their claims to stay in Britain. The average time for the tribunal process is more than 65 days – with some cases even lasting 100 days. GETTY - STOCK IMAGE The move would also apply to asylum seekers who lose their claims to stay in Britain (example photo) It is vital that foreign nationals who have no right to remain in the country should be removed as quickly as possible Liz Truss Justice Secretary Liz Truss, who is unveiling the plan today, said: “It is vital that foreign nationals who have no right to remain in the country should be removed as quickly as possible. ” The ambitious proposals come after figures yesterday showed that the removal of failed asylum seekers has plunged to a record low. The new system is intended to replace a previous fast-track system which was quashed in 2015 by a court ruling.
27	7	US lawmakers and IT industry against ending work permit to H-4 visa holders: Influential lawmakers and representatives of the American IT industry, including Facebook, have opposed the Trump administration's proposed plan to withdraw work permits to H-4 visa holders, who are spouses of H-1B visa holders. "Rescinding this rule and removing tens of thousands of people from the American workforce would be devastating to their families, and would hurt our economy," Silicon Valley-based FWD. US, which was founded by top IT companies like Facebook, Google and Microsoft, said in a report released yesterday. It comes a day after the American media reported a letter from the US Citizenship and Immigration Services about its decision to terminate the Obama-era regulation that granted work permits to H-4 visa holders, a majority of whom are Indian professionals, and are mostly women. "This policy is important because it allows certain individuals to secure gainful employment without having to wait for their spouses to receive permanent residency, many of whom are experiencing a processing backlog of more than a decade," FWD. US argued. Roughly 80 per cent of H-4 visa holders are women, and many had successful jobs and held advanced degrees in their native countries before coming to the US.
363	4	Trump set for first U.S. Supreme Court visit as justices weigh travel ban: By Lawrence Hurley WASHINGTON, June 15 (Reuters) - For the first time since he was elected, President Donald Trump is set to attend the U. S. Supreme Court on Thursday, presenting a potentially awkward moment as the court weighs what to do about his contentious executive order that attempts to restrict U. S. entry by people from six Muslim-majority countries. Trump is scheduled to visit the ornate, marble-clad courthouse in Washington for the investiture of new Justice Neil Gorsuch, whose Senate confirmation in April was his first major accomplishment. Attention will be focused on whether Trump, known for his off-the-cuff remarks and incendiary tweets, will follow the rules of an institution known for its courtesy and tradition. The stakes are heightened by the fact that Trump's so-called travel ban, one of his signature policies, is now before the justices after being blocked by lower courts. The president is expected to sit in the courtroom during the brief ceremony in which Chief Justice John Roberts will administer the judicial oath to Gorsuch. Trump is not expected to make a speech at the event, but he is likely to talk briefly to the justices beforehand in the court's conference room, as other presidents have done in the past, according to a court spokeswoman.
93	8	Isla Fisher puts on a defiant display in a headscarf following decision to uphold US travel ban: Actress Isla Fisher has thrown her support behind the Muslim community in an empowered Instagram post following the US Supreme Court upholding President Trump's travel ban last week. The Tag star, 42, shared a snap of her smiling alongside three other women - all wearing headscarves - to the picture - sharing site on Tuesday. Isla posted the picture after the US Supreme Court ruled that the White House had the authority to limit travel into the United States from a short list of Muslim-majority countries. Showing her support: Isla Fisher, 42, put on a defiant display in a headscarf following US Supreme Court's decision to uphold Trump's travel ban last week The Oman-native positively beamed as she joked around with the unnamed women, in a soft pink shirt and billowing red patterned trousers. Isla - who is married to comedian Sacha Baron Cohen - also donned a headscarf while smiling with an older woman, as the two next to her flashed a big smile for the camera. Taking a stand against the recent news, Isla captioned the snap: 'The Supreme Court upholding the Travel Ban, ain’t gonna stop me from hanging wit’ my crew.
171	4	Arrest of 'dreamer' immigrant could be first under Trump to defy DACA: The Obama administration policy protecting the children of undocumented immigrants who were brought to the United States in their youth may face its first test under the Trump administration when Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents arrested a Mexican migrant in Washington state last week. The arrest of Daniel Ramirez, 23, first reported by Reuters Tuesday evening, is possibly the first of an immigrant protected by the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program during the presidency of Donald Trump. Trump campaigned on the progress to halt undocumented immigration, particularly from Mexico, and to roll back Obama-era programs that provide amnesty to immigrants already living in the country. ICE said in a statement Ramirez is a "self-admitted gang member" arrested on Feb. 10 "during an operation targeting a prior-deported felon." "ICE officers took Mr. Ramirez into custody based on his admitted gang affiliation and risk to public safety," the statement said. According to the government, gang membership can be an indicator that an immigrant poses a public safety threat. Ramirez's attorney, Theodore Boutrous Jr., said: “The government offered no explanation of why Mr. Ramirez was initially taken into custody and why he is still being held" and said his client "had documentation that clearly indicated he had DACA( Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals) status, allowing him to live and work in the United States."
57	6	Seeking aid abroad, Lebanon uproots Syrian refugees: BEIRUT (AP) — Donor nations are raising money for Syria's neighbors to aid in hosting refugees of the country's civil war. But a leading international rights group and the U.N. 's refugee agency say Lebanese authorities are evicting refugees from towns and camps in the country on questionable legal grounds. Three years ago, Ahmad Mohsin was forced to relocate his campsite in Lebanon's Bekaa Valley after soldiers raided the community of Syrian refugees where he lived and smashed their belongings. The message was clear, he says — they were not wanted. Though Syrian President Bashar Assad appears to have largely suppressed the revolt against him in many parts of neighboring Syria, the U.N. and rights groups say the country is still not safe for refugee return.
163	4	Migrant rescue boat arrives in Spain after rejection by Italy and Malta: Migrants are seen on the ship Lifeline while the Malta Armed Forces arrive to send aid, near Malta in international waters June 23, 2018 in this still image taken from a video obtained from social media. — Picture by Mission Lifeline via Reuters MADRID, July 4 — A humanitarian rescue boat carrying 60 migrants rescued off Libya docked in Barcelona today after being turned away by Malta and Italy, in the latest example of European divisions on immigration. Spain’s new Socialist prime minister, Pedro Sanchez, had offered for the second time in a month to take in migrants rejected by Italy and Malta, which were both closer. Irregular immigration across the Mediterranean has fallen dramatically, with about 45,000 people making it to Europe across the sea this year compared to over a million in 2015, but politically it has become ever more divisive. Last week, European Union states agreed to tighten their external borders and spend more in the Middle East and North Africa to bring down the number of migrants and to set up new centres to handle new arrivals. In a video tweeted by a crew member, men, women and children sang and cheered as the rescue ship Open Arms, operated by the Spanish charity ProActiva Open Arms, arrived in Barcelona’s busy port to dock alongside cruise and cargo ships.
400	5	Syrian government calls on refugees to return home: Syrian government calls on refugees to return home Photo: Raad Adayleh, AP Image 1 of / 2 Caption Close Image 1 of 2 Jordanian residents of Jabir village watch aid deliveries to Syrians fleeing government offensive in the south as smoke from unknown fire rises, Tuesday, July 3, 2018. The UN says Syria government's Russian-backed offensive to recover southern territories from rebels has displaced 270,000 people, 60,000 of them headed near the sealed Jordanian borders. less Jordanian residents of Jabir village watch aid deliveries to Syrians fleeing government offensive in the south as smoke from unknown fire rises, Tuesday, July 3, 2018. The UN says Syria government's . more Photo: Raad Adayleh, AP Image 2 of 2 Jordanian residents of Jabir village watch aid deliveries to Syrians fleeing government offensive in the south as smoke from unknown fire rises, Tuesday, July 3, 2018. The UN says Syria government's Russian-backed offensive to recover southern territories from rebels has displaced 270,000 people, 60,000 of them headed near the sealed Jordanian borders. less Jordanian residents of Jabir village watch aid deliveries to Syrians fleeing government offensive in the south as smoke from unknown fire rises, Tuesday, July 3, 2018.
210	8	Tech companies are applying for more h-1b visas: CHARTS: For 15 years in a row, the number of applicants for H-1B work visas has far exceeded the program's cap of 85,000 available visas. The H-1B program, which allows US companies to bring in foreign workers in specialized fields like math, science and engineering, has long been a magnet for controversy. Tech companies say they need the visas to get scarce talent, while labor advocates contend that it allows companies to hire cheaper foreign workers instead of Americans. Amazon, Microsoft, and Google are just a few of the tech giants that rely on the H-1B visa to snatch up coveted tech talent, and as this chart by Statista shows, this trend has only increased in recent years. Among five prominent tech companies, each saw an increase in approved applications for H-1B working visas from 2016 to 2017, with Amazon taking up the largest share of applications.
304	7	Roxana Hernandez: Anger over transgender migrant's death in US: Immigrants’ rights groups have condemned the US government after a transgender immigrant died in US custody while seeking asylum. Roxana Hernandez, 33, was being held by immigration authorities in New Mexico when she fell ill. She had travelled in a migrant caravan disparaged by President Donald Trump. In a statement, US immigration authorities said all detained immigrants received comprehensive medical care. Friends say Ms Hernandez had fled violence, hate and stigma in Central America. “She saw in the United States the opportunity to start a new life free of abuse, risk and threats,” said a statement issued by a coalition of immigrants’ rights groups. After applying for asylum at the US border, Ms Hernandez was detained for deportation, the Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) agency said, citing previous convictions in Texas for theft, prostitution and illegally entering the country. According to ICE, Ms Hernandez was “processed as an expedited removal” when she applied for admission at the San Ysidro port of entry in California on 9 May. Six days later, on 15 May, she was transferred to the Cibola County Correctional Center in Milan, New Mexico.
125	7	Greek Doctors Say Lesbos NGO’s Failing to Aid Refugees: ATHENS – Greek State hospital doctors on the refugee-overrun eastern Aegean island of Lesbos said they’ve been burdened with health care for them while subsidized non-governmental organizations (NGO’s) aren’t doing enough. The NGOs are being backed with funds from the European Union while Greek islands have essentially been left on their own to deal with nearly 14,000 refugees and migrants locked there with the suspension of an EU swap deal with Turkey, whose coast is near the islands. Lesbos’ union of state hospital doctors said the two refugee camps at Moria and Kara Tepe do not have any pediatricians and all children there who become ill are taken to the hospitals which are seriously understaffed, they said in a statement. The doctors said that the NGOs “get paid handsomely” by the EU to help refugees but claimed claimed they had “totally failed to provide humane conditions for the refugees. ” Several human rights groups have complained about conditions at Greek refugee camps, particularly Moria and Elliniko, the abandoned former international airport in southern Athens.
154	8	Refugees and fighters in Lebanon's Arsal head for Syria: Buses carrying thousands of Syrian refugees and rebel fighters have begun leaving the Lebanese territory of Arsal for government held areas of Syria, according to the Hezbollah-owned al-Manar TV station. The evacuation on Monday is part of a deal between rebels and Hezbollah, which ensures the safe passage of refugees and the fighters themselves. Previous deals have seen refugees head to rebel held territory but on Friday, the Lebanese security official overseeing the arrangements, General Abbas Ibrahim, said that a group of civilians would go to Assal al-Ward, an area just across the border from Arsal and held by the Syrian government. The fighters and their families will go to another part of Syria which he did not identify. A military media unit run by Hezbollah last week said they would go to the rebel-held town of al-Ruhaiba in the Eastern Qalamoun region, the Reuters news agency reported. Some 300 rebels from a group called Saraya Ahl al-Sham, which is loyal to the Free Syrian Army, as well as about 3,000 refugees, are included in the deal that followed an assault by the Lebanese Shia group on rebel positions in Arsal, last month.
225	6	Brexit news: Irish border could bring EU talks 'crashing down': GETTY Brexit news: The Irish border could bring down the entire exit negotiations Brexit ministers has come no closer to overcoming the EU divorce's most complex hurdle despite yesterday’s positive transition deal draft announcement. Yesterday David Davis and Michel Barnier said much progress had been made towards a transition deal but admitted “more work” needed to be done on Ireland. The island’s border will soon become the only land border between the EU and the UK but Prime Minister Theresa May and her Brexit ministers have been unable to explain how to balance this with an open border. Negotiators on all sides are agreed a hard border with physical infrastructure must be avoided to avoid a return to the violence and bloodshed which scarred Northern Ireland and parts of the Republic for decades during the Troubles. But if the UK - including Northern Ireland - leaves the single market and customs union, customs checks will be inevitable on goods passing between the north and south of the island. Yesterday Jonathan Powell, a former Northern Ireland negotiator and the UK government’s former chief of staff, issued a stark warning to Mrs May. He said Mrs May had “boxed herself in” and left no room for manoeuvre on the most complex and important part of Brexit negotiations.
274	10	LHC extends stay on deportation of Turk teachers: LAHORE: The Lahore High Court (LHC) on Friday extended stay on deportation of Turk teachers, Murat Ervan and Mesut, and three family members of the latter. Justice Shams Mehmood Mirza passed the orders on petitions, filed against possible deportation of Murat Ervan and Mesut and his family members. During the hearing, a law officer on behalf of the Interior Ministry, submitted that a letter had been written to the intelligence agencies to know whether Mesut, his wife Meral, and daughters—Huda Nur and Fatima Huma Kacmaz—were in their custody. He requested the court to grant more time for filing a detailed report. At this, the court extended the stay and adjourned hearing for two weeks. These teachers were working for Pak-Turk schools. It is alleged that Mesut and his three members were picked up by law-enforcing agencies from their residence in Wapda Town on Sept 27 and they might be deported. Murat Ervan has also expressed apprehensions that he might be deported despite having permission for stay in Pakistan.
372	8	Former border agent convicted of federal gun charges: SAN DIEGO — A former U. S. Border Patrol agent was convicted by a federal jury Friday in San Diego of seven counts of illegal transportation of firearms and one count of possession of a short-barreled rifle. Martin Rene Duran, 48, of Chula Vista was found guilty following a three-day trial, according to Kelly Thornton, the director of media relations for the Office of the U. S. Attorney for the Southern District of California. “According to evidence presented at trial, Duran purchased seven firearms in Arizona in 2011, 2013 and 2014,” Thornton said. “Duran made these purchases using an Arizona driver’s license with an address where he never lived and claimed Arizona residency even though he resided in California. “At the time of the execution of a federal search warrant in October 2015, Duran was in possession of multiple firearms that were illegal in California and one short-barreled rifle. ” Duran is due to be sentenced on April 30. He is facing a five-year prison sentence, $250,000 fine and three years of supervised release following his release from prison for each conviction of illegal transportation of a firearm and a 10-year sentence, $250,000 fine and three years of supervised release for the conviction of possession of unregistered firearm, Thornton said.
306	8	Not aware about Nirav Modi seeking political asylum in UK: Govt: The government was not aware whether bank fraud fugitive Nirav Modi sought political asylum in the UK, official sources said on Wednesday. A media report had said that Nirav Modi was seeking political asylum in the UK. "We are not aware that he has asked political asylum in the UK. The UK has not informed us that he has sought political asylum in that country," said a source. Nirav Modi is wanted by the CBI in the USD 2 billion Punjab National Bank scam. The Interpol has already issued a Red Corner Notice against Nirav Modi, his brother Nishal Modi and his employee Subhash Parab on the request of the CBI. There were reports that Nirav Modi may have visited the UK, France and Belgium in the past few weeks. The sources said Indian missions abroad are conveying to local governments about the Interpol Red Corner Notice against Nirav Modi. The Interpol has issued the Red Corner Notice (RCN) on the basis of charge sheet filed by the CBI in a special court in Mumbai and the arrest warrant issued by the judge special J C Jagdale there. In its Red Corner Notice issued against a fugitive, the Interpol asks its 192 member countries to arrest or detain the person, if spotted in their countries after which extradition or deportation proceedings can begin.
404	5	European migrant rescue NGOs stuck on dry land amid ‘political crackdown’: European NGOs claim they are being prevented from rescuing migrants at sea amid a “political crackdown” that has left their vessels stuck on dry land. German charity Sea Watch told Euronews that its search and rescue plane had been denied permission to continue operating from Malta, while its ship Sea Watch 3 was being banned from leaving a Maltese port. In an email to Sea Watch seen by Euronews, DC Aviation Dispatch — the interface between the NGO and Maltese Authorities — quoted officials as saying that no permit would be issued for any search and rescue operation “unless this is being done on behalf of Malta or on request by a neighbouring country”. Sea Watch 3 requested to leave a port after undergoing maintenance earlier this week but the port authority refused, saying that the vessel’s status was under review. Sea Watch spokesperson Ruben Neugebauer told Euronews the NGO believed the decisions were part of a “political crackdown” on civil sea rescue, and compared it to stopping an ambulance trying to reach a road traffic accident. “We [have been] conducting search and rescue operations from Maltese ports and airports for more than two years.
466	8	Mexico finds nearly 200 migrants hidden in cramped lorry: Nearly 200 undocumented migrants from Central America have been found hidden in a lorry without food or water in north-eastern Mexico. The men, women and children were found crammed into the bottom of the lorry in Tamaulipas state just south of the Texas border, officials said. They had travelled from Guatemala, Honduras and El Salvador and were bound for the US. Three people have been arrested on suspicion of human trafficking. Mexican police said the lorry was stopped at a checkpoint and scanners detected the people hidden inside. They had no food, water or proper ventilation. Twenty-four of the migrants were unaccompanied children, officials added. Last month more than 170 undocumented Central Americans were taken into custody in the states of Coahuila and Tamaulipas. Guatemala, Honduras and El Salvador are a major source of illegal migrants being smuggled into the US. President Donald Trump has vowed to crackdown on all immigration, legal and illegal, and is pressing ahead with controversial plans for a wall along the Mexican border.
247	7	Spain blames computer glitch for huge citizenship application backlog: In Madrid, people wait for their Spanish nationality applications to be processed. The Spanish administration’s drive to digitalize its services has had an unexpected effect on thousands of immigrants in Spain. In 2012, the government launched the Intensive Nationality Plan, which can now only be accessed online in order to speed up citizenship application processing times. In the US it is hard to obtain citizenship, but once you meet the requirements everything goes much faster Omar Shanaa Yet in 2017 there were 78% fewer processed requests than in 2016, while applications only declined 19% over the same period. Sources at the Justice Ministry are blaming a computer glitch for the dramatic decline in processed applications. “The reduction is due to a migration of the computer application, which has taken longer than expected and pushed everything back,” said a ministry source. But applicants are skeptical and concerned. “I’ve been waiting nearly four years,” says Rosemary Moraes, a 51-year-old from Brazil who has been living in Madrid for a decade and who applied for Spanish citizenship in December 2014. “I don’t think it should take this long to deal with a case. I feel frustrated.
308	6	Ninety migrants feared drowned off Libya: Ninety migrants are feared drowned after a boat capsized off the Libyan coast, says the UN’s migration agency. Three survivors said most of those who drowned were Pakistani nationals. Libyans were also aboard. Libya has for years been a major transit route for migrants trying to reach southern Europe by sea. EU countries have wrangled over both reducing migrant numbers and deciding which countries are responsible for processing migrants on arrival. The EU struck a deal with the Libyan coastguard last year to help intercept migrants and return them to Libya. But aid agencies and the UN accused European governments of taking an “inhuman” approach. What happened in the latest disaster? From a boat carrying more than 90, only three survivors are reported – two of whom managed to swim to shore, while the third was picked up by a fishing boat. “Ten bodies are reported to have washed up on Libyan shores,” the International Organization for Migration (IOM) said in a statement. Unusually, there were also Libyans among the dead and survivors of the shipwreck, reports the BBC’s North Africa correspondent Rana Jawad. The Facebook page of the security directorate in the coastal city of Zuwara, where the bodies washed up, said a Libyan woman had drowned, but that of the three survivors two were Libyan nationals.
395	7	Students rally to save seats: Campaign calls for College to lower barriers for Syrian refugees: Students rally to save seats: Campaign calls for College to lower barriers for Syrian refugees This past week, the Books Not Bombs campaign at the College of William and Mary launched a week of events in partnership with Amnesty International to urge the College to "save seats" for Syrian refugees in the undergraduate admissions process. COURTESY PHOTO / NAIRUTI SHASTRY Sunday, April 16, students gathered on the Sunken Garden for the Rise for Refugees Vigil, ending a week of events designed to encourage College of William and Mary students to support “saving a seat” for students displaced by conflict in Syria. This week was in support of Books Not Bombs, a growing campaign at the College. In an event advertised as a vigil, students gathered to demonstrate what saving a seat would actually look like. Nairuti Shastry ’17, the founder of the College’s Books Not Bombs campaign, got her inspiration for the initiative while studying abroad in Belgium. There, she worked with primarily disadvantaged, Middle Eastern populations, many of whom were refugees. After a terrorist attack in Belgium, she said that many of the people she was working with changed how they treated the disadvantaged populations, which upset her because she was working with an organization that highlighted values such as diversity and inclusion.
486	7	Trump Is Sending Migrants From Around the World to Guantanamo. One Mother Speaks Out About Her Son’s Detention: Less than a week after deporting Venezuelans detained at Guantanamo Bay, the Trump administration has again flown about two dozen migrants to the U.S. naval base in Cuba. This time, however, the migrants are from countries across the world, including from places that are willing to take them back, which has raised additional questions about whom the government is choosing to send there and why. ProPublica and The Texas Tribune interviewed Angela Sequera, the mother of one of the first migrants sent to Guantanamo.
21	7	Immigrants beware: Marijuana may be legal in California, but it could get you deported: It’s legal in California, but marijuana possession and use is still a federal offense that could cause serious problems for immigrants in the Golden State. “It is still a federal offense,” said Inland-based attorney Russell Jauregui. “Federal law controls immigration and thus people will still face severe immigration consequences for marijuana conviction/use. ” Undocumented immigrants can be deported for marijuana consumption in certain circumstances and may risk not being admitted back into the United States if they leave. Immigrant rights activists and attorneys are reminding immigrants of potential consequences at a time when President Donald Trump is ramping up deportation efforts. The White House has said that any immigrant living in the U. S. illegally who has been charged or convicted of any crime, or even suspected of committing a crime, is now an enforcement priority. Virginia Kice, a spokeswoman with the U. S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, or ICE, declined to say how the agency deals with immigrants accused or convicted of marijuana crimes in states where it’s legal. Instead, she reiterated the Department of Homeland Security’s focus on targeting all “removable aliens” who have committed crimes, beginning with those who have been convicted of a criminal offense.
316	9	Undocumented immigrant detained by bondsmen on livestream​​​​​​​: KGTV - A video appearing to show the arrest of an undocumented immigrant is making rounds on the internet. The incident was livestreamed on Facebook by Ryan McAdams, who says he was out with Watkins Bail Bonds on Sunday when they were called to collect a client they had bonded out for a DUI charge. “A relative of the individual in the video called the bond office that the individual didn’t have his papers in order and he was looking to abscond,” said McAdams “and go back south over the border.” McAdams adds that what he recorded and posted to Facebook is a legit operation. However, some like Chicano activist Alexis Del Castillo says the video is tasteless and shows the exploitation of an immigrant. “He didn’t just bully him he like tormented him in front of everyone,” said Del Castillo, “I think it takes someone really despicable to do that sort of thing.” McAdams says he knows some people see it a certain way, but he just wants people to understand the reality others have to deal with. “He was in there for a DUI arrest and he was going to flee on that leaving a company $5,000 dollars behind,” said McAdams, “Everyone is held up to the same laws.”
348	7	Republicans vulnerable in 2018 band together in DACA effort: Republicans represent 23 congressional districts that Democrat Hillary Clinton won in 2016. Thirteen of those Republicans are banding together to push their own plan to force action on immigration. It’s probably going nowhere, meaning the plan’s purpose is to help protect these vulnerable GOP lawmakers politically as Republicans and Democrats remain stuck over how to tackle immigration issues. Darrell West, vice president of governance studies at the Brookings Institution, a nonpartisan think tank, said Republicans are simply giving themselves political cover. “They can say they made an effort, then blame Congress as a whole for not taking action,” West said. Never miss a local story. Sign up today for unlimited digital access to our website, apps, the digital newspaper and more. SUBSCRIBE NOW The vulnerable Republicans’ plan, introduced by Rep. Jeff Denham, R-Calif. , with 38 other Republicans Monday, would have the House consider a series of immigration bills. Two of the bills – the DREAM Act and the USA Act – have been backed by both Democrats and Republicans. The USA Act provides a path to legal citizenship for Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals recipients while also providing more for immigration enforcement policies.
445	6	White House claims Trump’s immigration plans could have prevented NYC attack: President Donald Trump said Monday that an attempted terrorist attack in New York bolsters the need for his preferred immigration policies, which the White House says would have prevented the suspect from entering the country. The White House offered no evidence about where the suspect was radicalized or whether there were any red flags in his record. The nation’s immigration system “allows far too many dangerous, inadequately vetted people to access our country,” Trump said, adding that the family-based method that brought the suspect to the US “incompatible with national security. ” “Today’s terror suspect entered our country through extended-family chain migration, which is incompatible with national security,” the President said. “Congress must end chain migration. Congress must also act on my administration’s other proposals to enhance domestic security. ” Trump also touted his travel ban, which does not apply to the country from which the suspect immigrated. All visa applicants to the US are screened before receiving their visas. The suspect, Akayed Ullah, 27, came to the US from Bangladesh in 2011 on a visa for children of siblings of US citizens, the Department of Homeland Security confirmed Monday. Ullah is a lawful permanent resident, or green card holder, spokesman Tyler Houlton said.
420	3	ICMPD Holds Workshop For Trainers On ECOWAS Regional Border Management: The International Centre for Migration Policy Development (ICMPD) has organized a 3day workshop for selected Trainers of border officials on the rollout of the ECOWAS Regional Border Management and Free Movement Training Manuals in Accra from 19th to 22nd March, 2018. Speaking at the opening ceremony, the Chief Director of the Ministry of the Interior, Adelaide Anor Kumi, who spoke on behalf of the Minister, Ambrose Derry said Border Management is critical in the overall success of this protocol and therefore requires a harmonized and standardize techniques for officers who man these borders. She noted that it is refreshing to know that, the training will be done using the ECOWAS Training curriculum and trainers guides as reference materials thereby making it more relevant and appropriate to suit our domestic needs. Mrs Anor Kumi indicated that the Border Patrol Unit of the Ghana Immigration Service has been provided with additional logistics and their capacity built for effective and efficient patrol of the borders. To further boost border control and security, she said a Secured Border Management System (SBMS) has been installed at the Kotoka International Airport to facilitate passenger processing and information security.
286	6	New York Today: A Culinary School for Refugees: After college, she would often volunteer at a homeless shelter before heading off to work at the Human Rights Campaign in Washington. “I was really struck by this idea of us just handing over the food and thought, ‘What would it look like to do this differently?’ And then I would go to my office and work with refugees and asylees and think, ‘Huh, we can do something different, right now.’” Ms. Brodie had no background in the food industry aside from a summer spent scooping ice cream as a teenager, so she enrolled at the Institute of Culinary Education in Lower Manhattan. She also attended a food business boot camp in Harlem and began picking up shifts at restaurants. After discussing the idea with friends, meeting with philanthropists and sending “millions of emails,” she set up her classroom cafe in June. Nearly half of her students received job offers before they had completed the program. “Which is a great position to be in,” she said. “Suddenly you’re going from having no choices to having choices, and being asked, ‘How do you put down roots here?’ Which is a new conversation for a lot of our students.” 
54	7	Amnesty International accuses EU of abetting migrant rights violations in Libya: BRUSSELS (Reuters) - European governments are “complicit” in grave human rights violations in Libya through their support for authorities there that often work with people smugglers and torture refugees and migrants, Amnesty International said on Tuesday. Determined to cut African immigration across the Mediterranean, the governments, via the European Union, have provided support to Libya, trained its coastguard and spent millions of euros through U. N. agencies to improve conditions in detention camps where Libya puts the migrants. The advocacy group said up to 20,000 people were now held in these centers and subject to “torture, forced labor, extortion, and unlawful killings”, adding to similar allegations made by other rights organizations over the past months. “European governments have not just been fully aware of these abuses; by actively supporting the Libyan authorities in stopping sea crossings and containing people in Libya, they are complicit in these crimes,” John Dalhuisen, Amnesty International’s head for Europe, said. The European Union’s executive arm, the European Commission, was not immediately available for comment. Libya is the main gateway for migrants trying to cross to Europe by sea, though numbers have dropped sharply since July as Libyan factions and authorities have begun to block departures under pressure from Italy, the main landing point.
298	9	SOMALILAND ASKS US FOR EXEMPTION TO TRUMP'S TRAVEL BAN: MOGADISHU, Somalia (AP) — Somalia’s breakaway northern territory of Somaliland is asking the United States for an exemption to President Donald Trump’s executive order on travelers from seven predominantly Muslim nations. Somalia is one of the affected countries, but Somaliland considers itself an independent state after breaking away in 1991. It continues to seek international recognition for its claim. A statement by Somaliland’s foreign affairs minister, Saad Ali Shire, says the republic wrote a letter Monday to Secretary of State Rex Tillerson and Homeland Security Secretary John Kelly requesting the exemption to the travel ban. The statement says Somaliland argued it “has not experienced the emergence of terrorist organizations,” in contrast to Somalia, where homegrown extremist group al-Shabab continues to carry out deadly attacks.
34	9	More visas issued amid Maryland crab industry labor shortage: BALTIMORE (AP)- A Maryland congressman says federal immigrant officials have agreed to approve 15,000 more seasonal guest worker visas. The announcement Thursday from U. S. Rep. Andy Harris came amid reports that Maryland's crab industry is suffering a labor shortage. Nearly half of Maryland crab workers were left without laborers to pick crab meat after their mostly Mexican workforce failed to get H-2B visas. The H-2B visa program is for seasonal workers in non-agricultural jobs. Crab processors say what share they get of the additional visas still won't be enough. U. S. Citizenship and Immigration Services wouldn't confirm the approval to the Sun Thursday. But Harris says he's working with the Trump administration to either raise the cap or allow Maryland's seafood business workers to get visas through another program.
244	8	Immigrant Rights Advocates Say The 'Muslim Ban' Is Already Happening: Immigrant Rights Advocates Say The 'Muslim Ban' Is Already Happening As the Supreme Court weighs the legality of the President's travel ban, immigrant rights advocates say the administration has already achieved the 'Muslim ban' Trump talked about during the campaign. Muslim immigration to the U. S. is down sharply in the past year.
204	7	Cuba tells U.S. suspension of visas is hurting families: HAVANA (Reuters) - Cuba told senior U. S. officials during talks on migration in Havana on Monday that the U. S. decision to suspend visa processing at its embassy on the island was “seriously hampering” family relations and other people exchanges. A view of the U. S. and Cuban flags prior to the signing of agreements between the Port of Cleveland and the Cuban Maritime authorities in Havana, Cuba, October 6, 2017. REUTERS/Alexandre Meneghini Relations between the former Cold War foes became strained after Donald Trump became the U. S. President, partially reversing the thaw seen during Barack Obama’s presidency. In September, after allegations of incidents affecting the health of its diplomats in Havana, the U. S. administration reduced its embassy to a skeleton staff, resulting in the suspension of almost all visa processing. “The Cuban delegation expressed deep concern over the negative impact that the unilateral, unfounded and politically motivated decisions adopted by the U. S. government . have on migration relations between both countries,” the Cuban foreign ministry said in a statement. The statement was issued after delegations led by Cuba’s Foreign Ministry chief for U. S. Affairs Josefina Vidal and U.
309	4	Bridging The Gap With World Refugee Day: Since 2015, the word “refugee” has carried more and more weight in society because of the Syrian refugee crisis. With this word comes a multitude of political opinions, and oftentimes, arguments ensue. Whatever your opinion on refugees and immigrants, the majority of people can agree that safety, shelter, food, and hope are necessities of life. World Refugee Day, to be celebrated June 20th, honors the people that have courageously searched for those exact same things beyond the pestilence, persecution, and violence of their various homelands. One of the main sponsors of this event is Bridge Refugee Services, a nonprofit that facilitates refugee settlement in Chattanooga. Bridge Refugee Services has played an extremely integral part in settling refugees in affordable housing, assisting in language acquisition, and providing self-sufficiency through job opportunities. World Refugee Day will be celebrated at the Camp House by engaging in some refugees’ personal stories and journeys, live music, food from a variety of cultures prepared by past and present Bridge clients, and even an art station for any children who attend. This gathering will not only be a celebration of the refugees’ past journeys but also a celebration of the beacon of hope that Chattanooga can become for asylum seekers in the future.
318	7	Students and faculty discuss President Trump’s immigration ban at roundtable: On Thursday, students and faculty gathered in Hollander Hall for an informal roundtable on the ramifications of President Donald Trump’s executive order banning travelers from seven majority-Muslim countries. Professor Jacqueline Hidalgo of Latino/a studies, Professor Magnus Bernhardsson of history and Professor Zaid Adhami of religion led the discussion, which focused on the legal and ethical implications of the ban and its place in the historical and geopolitical landscape of the United States. Trump issued the executive order on Jan. 27, suspending admission for refugees for 120 days and putting a 90-day hold on entry into the country for nationals of Iran, Iraq, Libya, Somalia, Sudan, Syria and Yemen so that federal agencies can review the vetting process. Trump stated that the order is intended “to keep radical Islamic terrorists out of the United States of America,” following his campaign rhetoric to block Muslim immigration to the U. S. Judge James L. Robart of the Federal District Court in Seattle temporarily blocked the order on Feb. 3, after Washington state challenged its legality. The San Francisco-based U. S. Court of Appeals for the 9th Circuit later upheld that decision. Hidalgo opened the roundtable with a contextualization of the order and Trump’s rhetoric within American history.
236	6	House Split On Immigration Might Be Good Politics For Some Moderate Republicans: House Split On Immigration Might Be Good Politics For Some Moderate Republicans Enlarge this image toggle caption Rich Pedroncelli/AP Rich Pedroncelli/AP House Republican leaders are struggling to contain a growing split within their party over immigration policy. But for some vulnerable moderates breaking from some of the GOP's hardest-line proposals could be the key to avoiding defeat in November. Californian Steve Knight is one of nearly two dozen House Republicans who have signed on to a petition to force the House to vote on immigration proposals as early as next month. The plan is to allow the House to vote on at least four bills, including a pathway to citizenship that many conservatives hate. That plan frustrates House leaders who worry a messy fight on immigration will divide the party and boost Democrats' chances of winning control of the House in November. But Knight said Monday in an interview at a Memorial Day event in his home district that he is confident that it's better for him if they at least try to pass some immigration legislation. "This is doing probably one of the hardest things in America that we've ever tried to do," Knight said.
465	8	Lone migrant rescue ship keeps up patrols off Libya: ON BOARD THE AQUARIUS: On board the Aquarius, one of the last NGO ships still operating off the coast of Libya, rescuers are worried they are not seeing any more boatloads of migrants at sea. Libya’s navy, last week, ordered foreign vessels to stay out of a coastal “search-and-rescue zone” for migrants headed for Europe, a measure aimed at non-governmental organizations (NGOs) it accuses of facilitating traffickers in illegal migration. One by one, the NGOs halted operations, except the Aquarius. The 68-meter orange boat, formerly used by the German coast guard, sailed alone off the Libyan coast on Sunday. “For the moment, we are continuing our patrol operation in international waters,” said Nicola Stall, search and rescue coordinator for the Aquarius, which is operated by SOS Mediterranee and Doctors Without Borders (MSF). And so the Aquarius team of rescuers keeps up its two-hour rotation, day and night, to watch for migrants floating on overcrowded and unseaworthy boats. MSF workers, meanwhile, check their stocks of medications, while other volunteers give the bridge a fresh coat of paint. As they wait, they are concerned about the calm sea and the favorable winds of the past few days.
25	5	Some young immigrants are considering seeking their American dreams elsewhere: The United States was an inspirational place for Karla Estrada Sanchez’s parents, but she is starting to wonder whether the American dream could be turning into a nightmare for herself and other young immigrants. “My parents have always told (us) opportunities are anywhere. They brought us to this country because it was supposedly the land of opportunity,” said Estrada, 26, of Los Angeles. “But if we find opportunity in another place, our country is wherever our feet take us,” she said. Estrada, a participant in President Barack Obama’s Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, which provides deportation relief and work permits to immigrants who were brought here as children, is one of many young immigrants who are contemplating leaving the country. They are worried about their future here as President Donald Trump’s administration ramps up deportation efforts and has recently proposed limiting legal immigration. Immigration arrests increased by nearly 40 percent in early 2017 as agents — emboldened by Trump’s pledge to build a border wall and deport criminals — detained more than 40,000 people suspected of being in the country illegally. Under current White House policy, any immigrant living illegally in the U.
430	2	As Gazans attack border crossing, it's Israel coming to their aid: Despite Hamas 's repeated assault on the Kerem Shalom border crossing — the only lifeline that supplies basic goods to civilians in Gaza — Israel has been battling intensively to keep the crossing active. The episode underlines a much wider phenomenon in which Hamas seeks to create a crisis to find outside funding for Gazans' needs, so that it can ensure the stability of its regime and keep supporting its military wing. Meanwhile, the Palestinian Authority seeks to choke off Gaza's economy as a form of punishment for Hamas refusing to disarm its military wing and to force Hamas to pay a price for splitting off from the P. A. However, those paying the price for these events are the residents of the Gaza Strip. Three times in May, Kerem Shalom was attacked by mobs acting under instructions by the Hamas terror organization. Rioters burned down fuel pipes that supply Gazans with critical energy needs and looted the Palestinian side of the crossing terminal. According to Israeli intelligence assessments, these actions are part of a wider effort by Hamas to ramp up the pressure on Israel and the international community to get them fresh funds for the collapsing Palestinian economy.
413	8	I will protect you!' Marine Le Pen vows to end all immigration to France if elected president: The far-Right leader Marine Le Pen on Sunday sought to mobilise her supporters six days ahead of France's most unpredictable presidential election in decades by pledging to suspend all immigration and shield voters from "savage globalisation". Opinion polls have for months shown Le Pen and centrist Emmanuel Macron qualifying on Sunday for the May 7 run-off, but the gap with conservative Francois Fillon and far-Leftist Jean-Luc Melenchon has been tightening. "I will protect you. My first measure as president will be to reinstate France's borders," Le Pen said to wide applause and cheers from the crowd of about 5,000, prompting the Front National's (FN) traditional "This is our home! " chant.
289	2	Trump Immigration Policy Veers From Abhorrent to Evil: Yet Mirian, a Honduran woman who arrived in the U.S., broke no law. She simply followed the established procedure by presenting herself at an official border crossing point and requesting asylum because her life was in danger in Honduras — nevertheless, her 18-month-old was taken from her. “The immigration officers made me walk out with my son to a government vehicle and place my son in a car seat in the vehicle,” Mirian said in a declaration accompanying the A.C.L.U. suit. “My son was crying as I put him in the seat. I did not even have a chance to comfort my son, because the officers slammed the door shut as soon as he was in his seat.” Likewise, Ms. G, a Mexican in the A.C.L.U. suit, went to an official border crossing point and requested asylum with her 4-year-old son and blind 6-year-old daughter. None of them had broken American law, yet the children were taken from their mother. “I have not seen my children for one and a half months,” Ms. G wrote in her declaration. “I worry about them constantly and don’t know when I will see them.” Granted, this does not happen to all who present themselves at the border and do not cross illegally; it seems arbitrary.
398	7	Aussie deputy PM and 'accidental Kiwi' drops New Zealand citizenship: SYDNEY (AFP) - Australia's "accidental Kiwi"and Deputy Prime Minister Barnaby Joyce renounced his New Zealand citizenship on Tuesday (Aug 15) amid sheep jokes, Hollywood taunts and conspiracy theories about a left-wing plot to topple Canberra's conservative government. Mr Joyce, 50, revealed his New Zealand connection on Monday, and it sparked calls for him to stand down as it is illegal for dual citizens to have a seat in the Australian Parliament. By Tuesday afternoon, Mr Joyce told Parliament that the authorities in Wellington had said that he could renounce the New Zealand citizenship that he unknowingly acquired from his Dunedin-born father. He said: "We received verbal communication from New Zealand before question time that has now been accepted, and we're looking forward to the written advice turning up pronto. " The development does not mean the end of the bizarre affair, which threatens Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull's one-seat majority in Parliament. But Mr Joyce will hope it bolsters the case to remain in his job - and preserving the government's wafer-thin buffer - until the High Court determines if he is eligible to sit as an elected official. KIWI FRUIT Mr Joyce is best known internationally for threatening to euthanise Hollywood superstar Johnny Depp's dogs Pistol and Boo, when they were brought into the country illegally.
222	5	Berlin grants asylum to alleged Turkey plotters: Spiegel: Germany has granted asylum to four Turkish soldiers, including one Ankara accuses of playing a leading role in the attempted military coup of July 2016, in a new setback for relations between the two countries, weekly magazine Der Spiegel reported. By granting them asylum, German authorities make it impossible for them to be extradited to face charges, a refusal likely to dismay Turkish authorities, who accuse them of treachery and membership in a terrorist organisation. Turkey accuses Ilham P. , a former Turkish colonel whose surname cannot be published in full because of German privacy practices, then head of the Ankara military academy, of being ring-leader of the group. The Foreign Ministry could not immediately comment on the report. Relations between European countries and Turkey have been strained ever since the coup attempt and the crackdown that followed it, with many bemoaning Turkey’s authoritarian turn under President Recep Tayyip Erdogan. Large numbers of German citizens have been detained in Turkey for what Berlin regards as political reasons, most of them over alleged links to coup plotters. Also on Friday, a Greek court ruled that a man accused of being behind a series of suicide bombings in Turkey could not be extradited because his life would be in danger at home.
43	8	Arizona Border Patrol agents find catapult attached to border fence: TUCSON, Ariz. (WDTN) – Station Border Patrol agents recently seized two bundles of marijuana catapulted across the border from Mexico. While patrolling an area east of the Douglas Port of Entry on February 10, agents noticed several people on the south side quickly retreating from the fence as they approached. When agents arrived at the fence they found a catapult system attached to the south side of the border fence. They searched the area and located two bundles of marijuana. Agents contacted law enforcement authorities in Mexico who responded to investigate. U. S. Border Patrol agents dismantled the catapult system which was seized by Mexican authorities. Border Patrol agents took possession of the marijuana that weighed more than 47 pounds.
414	3	Merkel Bows Down To Far-Right, Stops Migrants From Entering Germany: The far-right nationalist party, AfD, is rapidly gaining support in Bavaria and is presumably the reason that led Interior Minister Horst Seehofer to revolt against Merkel. The world is in the midst of the worst refugee crisis since World War II but millions of migrants and asylum seekers are facing even harsher crackdowns. The most recent case in point: German Chancellor Angela Merkel, who once pushed for an open-border policy, has just agreed to a half-baked deal that will make it harder still for migrants to enter Germany. Merkel has faced a revolt from far-right parties over her comparatively welcoming stance towards migrants and refugees. To save her crumbling governing coalition and mollify her rebellious Bavarian allies, the German chancellor has agreed to close asylum “transit camps” along three Austrian borders. According to The Atlantic, migrants seeking asylum in Germany, who have already applied on other European Union countries would not be turned back at the border immediately. Instead, they will be camped at transit centers along the German-Austrian border. From there, Germany will send rejected asylum seekers back to their countries after they strike a negotiation with the countries. If a deal is not struck, rejected refugees will be sent back to Austria on the basis of an agreement with Vienna.
373	6	Israel cancels expulsions of African migrants: JERUSALEM — The Israeli government has acknowledged it cannot expel African migrants against their will and has cancelled all pending deportation orders. In a statement to the Supreme Court on Tuesday, the state says: “It is not possible to implement expulsions to a third country without (migrants’) consent.” Some 35,000 African migrants, mostly from Sudan and Eritrea, are in Israel. The government wants most of them to leave, but has not been able to find a way to expel them lawfully. Last month, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu reached a deal with the U.N. to resettle half of the migrants in Western nations and absorb the rest. But hours later, he called it off, caving in to nationalist critics who said it wasn’t enough.
144	6	Fate of young immigrants divides Dems on last-minute budget: WASHINGTON (AP) — Congressional Democrats stand divided over whether to fight now or later about the fate of some 800,000 immigrants who came to the U.S. illegally as children. House Democrats want the issue resolved in the broad spending bill. Some Senate Democrats would rather deal with the issue next year, ahead of President Donald Trump's March deadline. The fate of these "Dreamers" is among the trickiest issues to resolve as Washington seeks to avert a Christmas government shutdown. For Illinois Rep. Luis Gutierrez, there is no more important issue in the year-end budget showdown. But at the top of Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer's list of political concerns are the re-election bids of 10 Senate Democrats in states Trump won. They want nothing to do with shutting down the government over immigration.
106	7	Israel cancels expulsions of African migrants: JERUSALEM (AP) — The Israeli government has acknowledged it cannot expel African migrants against their will and has canceled all pending deportation orders. In a statement to the Supreme Court on Tuesday, the state says: "It is not possible to implement expulsions to a third country without (migrants') consent." Some 35,000 African migrants, mostly from Sudan and Eritrea, are in Israel. The government wants most of them to leave, but has not been able to find a way to expel them lawfully. Last month, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu reached a deal with the U.N. to resettle half of the migrants in Western nations and absorb the rest. But hours later, he called it off, caving in to nationalist critics who said it wasn't enough.
40	5	In defensive move, Trump extends effective date of travel ban order: WASHINGTON — President Trump signed an order rebooting the effective date of his travel ban Wednesday to ensure that it still would suspend travel from six predominantly Muslim nations for 90 days if the Supreme Court lifts injunctions that have blocked its implementation. Trump's move was intended to prevent the high court from declining to hear the case because it's already been 90 days since the March 16 effective date of his revised executive order. Opponents of the ban had argued that the elapsed time made the case moot. In an unusual move, Trump used a presidential memorandum to amend his executive order "in light of questions in litigation about the effective date of the enjoined provisions and in the interest of clarity. " The memorandum comes two days after the 9th Circuit Court of Appeals upheld a lower court order blocking key provisions of the travel ban on nationals from Iran, Libya, Somalia, Sudan, Syria, and Yemen. But the court allowed the administration to proceed with a review of screening procedures for people entering the country — what Trump calls "extreme vetting. " Trump had intended those two provisions to go hand-in-hand.
190	8	Deputy PM to head to Washington to discuss World Bank refugee aid: Deputy Prime Minister Ghassan Hasbani Tuesday met with Prime Minister Saad Hariri to discuss a trip to Washington on Wednesday where he is set to hold talks with World Bank officials on providing aid to Lebanon due to the refugee crisis. Hasbani's trip follows the Brussels Conference On Supporting The Future of Syria And The Region earlier this month, which a Lebanese delegation headed by Hariri attended. Turning to the contentious vote law debate, Hasbani said that he was not sure if a ministerial committee tasked with following up on the matter would hold meetings soon. Hasbani, who is also Lebanon's health minister, also said that there have been no calls for the Cabinet to convene. .
79	6	GOP lawmaker accuses bipartisan caucus of withholding a potential 'dreamers' compromise: A Republican lawmaker key to ongoing talks over how to resolve the legal status of "dreamers" is accusing leaders of a bipartisan House caucus of withholding details of a bipartisan compromise on immigration policy that could lead to a breakthrough in protracted negotiations of a major spending bill. Rep. Carlos Curbelo, R-Fla. , said Monday that leaders of the bipartisan Problem Solvers Caucus have waited more than two weeks to present a potential compromise to the group of roughly 40 House Democrats and House Republicans. Curbelo, who represents parts of Miami and all of the Florida Keys, is one the more moderate voices in his Caucus and is leading talks with Democrats on immigration reform. He warned that potential compromises need to be revealed this week if Congress has any hope of passing legislation that would enact permanent legal protections for so-called dreamers, the children of undocumented immigrants — a top Democratic priority — and also make changes in the nation's security plan along the U. S. -Mexico border, which is a key priority for Republicans. "This week is pivotal," Curbelo told a group of Latino congressional reporters in a joint interview.
219	9	Aid groups cut death toll from migrant shipwreck off Libya: GENEVA Five migrants are believed to have died when a rubber boat sank off the coast of Libya on Tuesday, aid groups said on Friday, adding that reports earlier this week that many more had been killed were wrong. Probably still in shock after he was taken to the Italian island of Lampedusa, a 16-year-old Gambian boy told humanitarian workers on Wednesday he was the only survivor of the wreck, Cecile Pouilly, a spokeswoman for the UNHCR, told reporters. When 140 others disembarked at a different port on Thursday, several identified the boy as having been on the same boat. "So we have pretty good information that this tragedy didn't occur as was initially reported," said Joel Millman, spokesman for the International Organization for Migration. "We try to be as conservative as possible and only report what we know. This was not one of those cases. " Some 650 migrants are estimated to have died trying to reach Europe by crossing the Mediterranean so far this year, and arrivals in Italy are up about 30 percent from the same period last year.
24	3	German coalition is safe despite migration row - Merkel: BERLIN (Reuters) - German Chancellor Angela Merkel played down a bruising dispute about immigration policy with her Bavarian allies, saying in a televised interview on Wednesday that the row did not risk the stability of her coalition government. "I can't promise that there won't be disputes again about other issues, as this is usual when a government includes three parties," Merkel told ARD television when asked if her coalition would a full four years. "This time it was a heavy dispute about a topic that is also very emotional. But I firmly expect and I'll do my part to ensure that we do our government work in a good way, and not only now but also in the coming years," she said.
64	5	Evangelicals may be driving GOP to embrace DREAMers: WASHINGTON — As the debate over immigration rages in Congress without an agreement in sight, there is growing consensus over one piece of the equation: The need to protect undocumented immigrants who came to the U. S. as children from deportation. Republicans have come to embrace these so-called "DREAMers" in part because many evangelical Christians — who make up a quarter of Americans and are an influential conservative bloc within the GOP — have become more vocal about the topic over the last half decade. The idea stems from the Bible: “Individuals are created within the image of God and have value and worth. So each person — regardless of their location and their birth and skin color, it doesn’t matter. That individual has value and worth in the eyes of God and they should be valued by other individuals as well,” Oklahoma Sen. James Lankford, an evangelical Christian and former youth camp director, told USA TODAY. Former President Barack Obama issued an executive order that gave protections to nearly 800,000 undocumented immigrants who came to the U. S. as children. Republicans said the program, Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, was unconstitutional because Congress is supposed to handle immigration — not the president.
152	6	Bay Area physicians say immigrant families fearful of trips to the doctor's office: Doctors in the East Bay say they are seeing the effects that fear is having on the health of their immigrant patients. They say sometimes those patients are even scared to go to the doctor.Dr. Jyothi Marbin is the Director of Pediatric Research for the underserved residency program at UCSF and she says she has seen people un-enrolling from programs like food stamps and she has even seen families afraid to come into clinics or the doctor's office.Marbin says it's because of concerns that they might be put on the record in some way and they might be putting themselves or their families at risk of deportation.Marbin decided to organize an immigrant healthcare symposium tomorrow in Oakland, bringing together over 200 providers, clinicians, and politicians.Pediatrician Dr. Noemi Spinazzi is on the front lines seeing kids with stomachaches and headaches as she says they succumb to stress over fears of the family members deportation. Or they don't go to the doctor if they are sick.Spinazzi says she also sees families who are afraid to report domestic violence for fear of repercussions from the government.Starting a dialogue on all of this is a way for Dr.
202	7	Law allows Trump to strip visas from countries who won't take back deported citizens: Even if President Trump can’t convince the courts to approve his extreme vetting executive order, he may have another tool at his disposal that would allow him to strip visas from some of the seven countries he’s trying to target, crackdown supporters say. A federal law says the government can stop issuing visas to countries that are deemed “uncooperative” because they refuse to take back their citizens when the U. S. tries to deport them. At least five of the seven countries Mr. Trump is targeting — Iran, Iraq, Libya, Somalia and Sudan — are already on that list, according to new data obtained by the Immigration Reform Law Institute. All Mr. Trump would have to do is have his Homeland Security Department secretary issue an official notification about those countries, and the State Department would immediately halt visas, IRLA says. “Each of these countries either cannot or are unwilling to take back their citizens, all of whom have either violated our immigration laws or committed crimes against our own. For that reason alone, the Trump administration can and should put a complete halt to their visa privileges. In fact, the law requires it,” said Ian Smith, investigative associate at the IRLA.
440	5	Third party in German coalition resists moves for refugee processing camps: The third party in Angela Merkel's coalition is resisting moves for migrant processing camps - a plan the German chancellor hoped could save her government. Merkel's Christian Democrats (CDU) and their CSU allies had agreed to set up special transit centres at the border with Austria. The plan, aimed at ending a dispute between the two parties, would see refugees already registered in other EU countries held in the centres and then sent back to the countries where they had registered first. But it has since emerged that the third member of the coalition, the Social Democrats, are sceptical of the idea and want more talks to make the proposal work. Further dispute could put the future of Merkel's three-month government under threat with the CSU demanding action to solve Europe's migrant crisis. The third party in Angela Merkel's coalition is resisting moves for migrant processing camps - a plan the German chancellor (pictured today) hoped could save her government Merkel's Christian Democrats (CDU) and their CSU allies had agreed to set up special transit centres at the border with Austria. The German Chancellor is pictured with Interior Minister Horst Seehofer of the CSU Merkel is pictured with German Minister of Finance Olaf Scholz, from her coalition partners, the Social Democratic Party A Forsa poll this morning showed a majority of Germans are unhappy about the agreement.
471	2	Roy Moore vows to aid Trump’s immigration crackdown after NYC terror attack: Republican Alabama Senate candidate Roy Moore weighed in on the terror attack in Manhattan on Monday, vowing to back President Trump’s tough stance against Islamic terrorists if elected. “As we get news this morning of yet another radical Islamic terrorist attack, I am grateful that it appears no one was critically injured, and, as always, I am thankful for the quick action of law enforcement who have the suspect in custody,” Moore wrote on Twitter, hoping to generate some positive press for himself by seizing on the bombing. “This incident underscores the continued threats our nation faces from those who want nothing more than to destroy the freedoms we enjoy. I am committed to implementing the president’s travel ban, putting an end to sanctuary cities, building the wall and making America safer,” he continued. “In the United States Senate I will fight with President Trump for the increased safety of the American people and I will not mince words when it comes to calling out radical Islamic terrorism for the threat that it is.” Moore, who has denied charges of sexual misconduct and assault from at least eight women, is facing Democrat Doug Jones in a special election Tuesday to fill the Senate seat vacated by Attorney General Jeff Sessions.
18	9	Woman charged after being found with 6 near Canada border: HIGHGATE, Vt. (AP) — The U. S. Border Patrol says a North Carolina woman is facing a charge she was transporting people into the United States who didn't have permission to be in the country. A complaint filed in U. S. District Court in Burlington says Border Patrol agents were alerted early Sunday that six people had walked into the United States from Canada in Highgate, Vermont. Agents spotted an SUV driven by 31-year-old Carmen Melari Ferrufino Perdomo, of Charlotte, North Carolina, a U. S. citizen originally from Honduras. It's unclear if she has an attorney. In the car were six Mexican citizens who told investigators they had crossed into the United States that night. The Border Patrol says the area where the group was first spotted has seen multiple smuggling events in the past few weeks.
10	6	For Syrian Refugees In Turkey, A Long Road To Regular Employment: In a neighborhood of Istanbul that's plastered with Arabic signs, a Syrian refugee whips up his specialty — avocado cream smoothies — at the small, colorful cafe where he works. Majd al-Hassan has been in Turkey for two years, but has yet to learn much Turkish. He doesn't need to. This area is filled with fellow Syrians. He's paid in cash, under the table, and has yet to really integrate into Turkish society, he acknowledges. "We've got Syrian supermarkets, Syrian restaurants — just like back home," says Hassan, 26. "I haven't even applied for a Turkish ID card. If peace comes to Syria, I'll go home tomorrow." Nearby, a resident who describes herself as one of the last Turks living on this street near Istanbul's Fatih Mosque says she no longer recognizes her neighborhood. "Before, this area was only Turkish people, mostly. But now, here, there, everywhere, it's all Syrian people," says Tulay Suleyman, who was born here. "Some Turkish people, they don't like these [new] people. Their culture is a little bit different than ours. [They're] mostly ignorant people — homeless people, low-class." Xenophobia has flared with the arrival of migrants in parts of Europe.
484	4	Some Americans Have Already Been Caught in Trump’s Immigration Dragnet. More Will Be: About a week after President Donald Trump took office, Jonathan Guerrero was sitting at the Philadelphia car wash where he works when immigration agents burst in. The agents didn’t say why they were there and didn’t show their badges, Guerrero recalled. So the 21-year-old didn’t get a chance to explain that although his parents were from Mexico, he had been born right there in Philadelphia.
129	9	Australia offering $25,000 to asylum seekers on Manus Island to return home: Authorities at the Manus Island detention centre in Papua New Guinea are reportedly offering asylum seekers large sums of money to return to their home countries. At least a dozen asylum seekers from Nepal and Bangladesh at the detention centre said that they are being called to meet Australian officials and are being pressured to take up to $25,000 (£20,000). According to Reuters, one of the detainees named Mohammed Bilal, who fled Bangladesh due to political reasons, had met Australian officials last week. "They told me and others that if you go back voluntarily you will get money about $20,000, if you guys go in group you will get more money," Bilal said. It is not illegal for countries to provide refugees with financial assistance to voluntarily return to the home countries and start afresh. The Australian immigration department in a statement said: "Substantial assistance packages are available to help non-refugees depart voluntarily, return home and re-establish their lives in their home country. In cases where non-refugees refuse to depart voluntarily, the government of PNG [Papua New Guinea] has indicated that it will enforce the removal of those individuals, in accordance with normal international practice.
438	5	How to cross the US-Mexico border: making El Mar La Mar: The Sonoran desert is a piece of the American landscape that has evolved as if to edit humanity out of existence. Populated by spiked plants, poisonous insects, rattlesnakes and America’s only native big cat, the jaguar, its arid terrain stretches along the US-Mexican border over a total of 260,000 sq km. Crossing this wildnerness on foot takes three to five days, and during the summer, daytime temperatures regularly exceed 40°C (104°F). The US border patrol is alleged to have retrieved 6,029 human remains from this stretch in southern Arizona since the 1990s. The bodies of thousands of others who have tried to enter the US through the desert may have been bleached away by the searing sun before they were found. For El Mar La Mar, which premiered at the Berlin film festival this week, film-makers Joshua Bonnetta and JP Sniadecki visited this hostile environment for lengthy spells over the course of almost three years, filming the landscape, recording wildlife and talking to border rangers, aid workers and people-smugglers. Though their project started more than a year before the American electorate was lured by the promise of a “great, great wall” on its southern border, the result is a nature-documentary-cum-film-poem that also works as a sarcastic riposte to the new president’s grand plan: how could anyone artificially design a more mercilessly efficient deathtrap than the Sonoran desert in its current form?
96	7	Those Affected By Trump's Travel Ban Hope For End To 'Chaos' After Supreme Court Case: At the New York City cell phone shop where he does his homework, nine-year-old Ahmed Alhuthaifi says he misses his mom a lot. "Sometimes, I feel like I am going to cry," he says. "Trump won't let her in. " After a years-long effort, his mother, who is stuck in Saudi Arabia, was denied a visa due to President Trump's restrictions on immigration and travel from certain countries, including Yemen. She and Ahmed's four younger siblings, who live with her, missed Ahmed's birthday celebrations on April 3. "He expected them to be here, all his brothers and sisters; he's depressed all the time," says Fathi Alhuthaifi, his father. "I need my wife and kids. We are in a bad situation. " On Wednesday, the Supreme Court will hear oral arguments in a case challenging the ban as discriminatory and unconstitutional. Administration lawyers insist the ban, in effect in full since early December, is a national security necessity. Alhuthaifi is an American citizen. He emigrated from Yemen more than 20 years ago and runs a successful cell phone business on West 145th St. in Harlem. He named his youngest son McCain, after the Arizona Republican senator he admires.
175	6	Huron University College students boost own fees to help refugees: Students at Huron University College have voted to dramatically increase their own fees to help pay for more refugees to attend the London school, officials announced Monday. The 33% boost in fees will be matched by a contribution from Huron itself. “Today, we are proud to announce that up to five student refugees, already arrived in Canada, will receive a full-tuition scholarship from Huron University College when they register,” Dr. Barry Craig, principal of Huron University College, said. “These actions align with our mission – fostering a sense of responsibility for society exercised both locally and globally.”A focus of those added funds will be to help refugees leaving war-torn Syria, he said. Huron made the announcement to celebrate its partnership with the World University Service of Canada. These actions align with our mission Barry Craig The school’s second such decision this school year; In September, Huron offered $60,000 scholarships for students affected by the Trump administration’s decision to end legal protection to children of illegal U.S. immigrants, so-called Dreamers. The school has “recommitted” to that scholarship, Craig said Monday.
159	10	Two migrant workers suffocate to death inside water board’s pipeline: By Express News Service HYDERABAD: Two migrant workers from Odisha died inside a water pipeline belonging to the HMWS&SB on Wednesday, while trying to remove the centring material put inside the inspection chamber. The workers, identified as Santosh (28) and Vijay (25), died within minutes of entering the pipeline in front the Rajiv Gandhi International Stadium at Uppal. The duo, believed to have died of asphyxiation, was working on a contract basis with L&T. Accompanied by a supervisor and colleagues Mahesh and Muni, they went to the spot on Wednesday. The duo first opened the lid of another chamber, but could not enter due to the stink, hot air and gases emanating from it. They then managed to enter through another chamber. After breaking the centring, when Santosh moved ahead to open the valve for water supply he fell into the 3-metre deep chamber and became unconscious. Vijay who followed him also met with the same fate. All this while, the supervisor and Muni were waiting outside, while Mahesh had gone to fetch some drinking water. It was much later that they noticed their colleagues had collapsed inside the chamber. They were pulled out with the help of passersby, but were dead by then.
242	6	White House, Dems restart negotiations over DACA, funding border wall: The White House and congressional Democrats traded proposals over the weekend about how to fix an Obama-era program protecting hundreds of thousands of immigrants brought to the U. S. illegally as children from deportation, Fox News has learned. A source familiar with the talks said discussions broke down after Democrats rejected a bid by the Trump administration to extend protections for those enrolled in the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program until the fall of 2020. In exchange, the White House would receive $25 billion in funding for President Trump's long-sought wall along the U. S. -Mexico border. The Democrats countered with an offer to provide funding for the wall in exchange for a pathway to citizenship for all 1. 8 million DACA-eligible immigrants -- as opposed to the estimated 800,000 who are enrolled in the program. At that point, the source told Fox News the talks broke down. The immigration talks were part of larger negotiations on a $1. 3 trillion catchall spending bill, which would have to pass Congress by midnight Friday to avert another government shutdown. Trump ended the DACA program in September of last year, but a court decision has essentially left it in place, for now.
164	10	Immigrants Hope New Legal Services Fund Provides ‘Better Opportunity’: By Shawn Chitnis DENVER (CBS4) – City leaders announced a new immigrant legal services fund Monday that will help people who may face deportation. The fund will be supported by taxpayer dollars along with grants and private donations. “My parents left everything they knew behind to give my brothers and I a better life,” said Juan Gallegos, a supporter of the new fund. “A better opportunity here in the U. S. ” Gallegos is the director of civic engagement and legal services for the Colorado Immigrant Rights Coalition. He shared his story at a news conference on the steps of the City and County Building. “My dad fell into deportation proceedings,” Gallegos said. “It was a really tough time for my family. ” He said his family could afford the fees and lawyers needed to keep his father in the country, a total of $15,000. But he knows many families do not have access to those resources. “Things are really rough in the place where I was born,” he told CBS4. “Having my dad have to go back to that would be really awful. ” Mayor Michael Hancock and other city leaders announced that $250,000 will come from the city including the general fun and Denver’s Support Fund.
139	8	German parties edge closer to coalition with migration deal: BERLIN (Reuters) - Chancellor Angela Merkel’s conservatives and their would-be partners, the Social Democrats (SPD), have made major progress in talks on forming a coalition government but remain at odds on issues like labor rules, a senior SPD member said on Friday. As he emerged from lengthy talks that Merkel hopes will ultimately secure her fourth term and end political impasse in Europe’s largest economy, SPD General Secretary Lars Klingbeil said the parties had taken a “leap forward. ” “But we also saw that we have differences on some topics,” he said. Senior conservative Peter Altmaier said Friday’s talks had been good and the parties were optimistic but a “very tough stretch of road” lay ahead. The parties became embroiled in another dispute over migration on Friday, with some SPD members saying they wanted to revisit January’s coalition blueprint that said the parties did not expect annual migration to exceed 220,000 per year because they were annoyed that Merkel’s CSU Bavarian allies seemed to be considering this as an upper limit. But SPD deputy Ralf Stegner later said the parties had reached a deal. In an apparent defeat for the SPD, the wording of that migration prediction remained the same - as pushed for by the CSU, which calls for a migrant cap.
35	6	Nearly 100 undocumented immigrants deported to Central America: Why did she do it? Why did she travel more than a thousand miles by bus and then ford the Rio Grande with a small band of desperate voyagers? Why did she endure the arid Texas landscape, with nothing but her common-law husband’s black cap to shield her from the sun? It was simple, the woman said. She had already lost two children in the gang-ridden horror that is El Salvador. Her fear, she said, was that the killers “wanted to wipe out the whole family. ” So the couple set out for the United States on May 13, hoping to reach Houston and her only surviving child, who had slipped across the U. S. border a year ago. They did not make it. Barely an hour after they crossed into Texas, they were captured by the Border Patrol, separated and locked up. On Thursday, the mom, her wrists and ankles in chains, was flown with about 100 other would-be migrants back to El Salvador. Thousands of others are in the same situation, having fled from ultraviolent gangs in El Salvador, Honduras and Guatemala, only to be caught near the U. S.
94	3	Rehabilitation of migrants extended up to March 2020: Cabinet: The Union Cabinet, chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, on Wednesday gave its nod for the continuation, up to 2020, of eight schemes of the Home Ministry for relief and rehabilitation of migrants under the umbrella scheme "Relief and Rehabilitation of Migrants and Repatriates". Addressing the media, Union Minister Rajnath Singh said the financial implication for this decision is Rs 3,183 crore for the period 2017-18 to 2019-20. "The year-wise phasing of the scheme will be Rs 911 crore in 2017-18, Rs 1,372 crore in 2018-19 and Rs 900 crore in 2019-2020. " A Home Ministry statement said: "The eight schemes approved for continuance are already in operation and the benefits under each will be extended to intended beneficiaries in accordance with the approved criterion. " The eight schemes were started, at different times, to enable the migrants and repatriates, who have suffered on account of displacement, to earn a reasonable income and to facilitate their inclusion in mainstream economic activities, the statement. These schemes provide assistance for relief and rehabilitation to displaced families from Pakistan-administered Kashmir and Chhamb; Sri Lankan refugees, Bru families lodged in relief camps in Tripura, Bru or Reang families from Tripura to Mizoram, 1984 anti-Sikh riot victims; civilian victims of terrorists, communal, Maoist violence and cross border firing and mine or improvised explosive device blasts on Indian territory and repatriation of Indian prisoners from abroad; and grant-in-aid to Central Tibetan Relief Committee.
143	7	US Leaves UN Global Migration Discussions, to Church’s Dismay: A mother and her children are among the world's millions of refugees. (Catholic Relief Services Instagram) US Leaves UN Global Migration Discussions, to Church’s Dismay Pope Francis and the U. S. bishops have called for a robust worldwide response to the international migration crisis, but the Trump administration fears an undermining of national sovereignty. Peter Jesserer Smith WASHINGTON — Global migration has reached historic levels, as an estimated 244 million people — 3% of the global population — are living outside their home countries. Approximately, 60 million migrants include those displaced by wars across the world. However, the U. S. government has opted to withdraw from ongoing United Nations discussions for an international compact on global migration, on the basis that the negotiations to strengthen global governance over the matter were “inconsistent with U. S. law and policy. ” “While we will continue to engage on a number of fronts at the United Nations, in this case, we simply cannot in good faith support a process that could undermine the sovereign right of the United States to enforce our immigration laws and secure our borders,” Secretary of State Rex Tillerson said Dec.
231	8	UNHCR: Overcrowded Greek refugee camps ill-prepared for winter: Greece must speed up winter preparations at refugee camps on islands in the Aegean Sea where there has been a sharp rise in arrivals, the United Nations refugee agency said on Friday. Nearly 5,000 refugees, mostly Syrian or Iraqi families, crossed from Turkey in September – a quarter of all arrivals this year, UNHCR data shows. While that is a fraction of the nearly 1 million who arrived in 2015 – due to a European Union deal with Turkey to block that route – four of the five island camps are hosting two or three times as many people as they were designed for. “UNHCR urges action on the islands to ease overcrowding, improve shelter, and stock and distribute appropriate and sufficient aid items,” said Philippe Leclerc, UNHCR representative in Greece. In the Moria camp on the island of Lesvos, one of the main entry points, more than 1,500 people are in makeshift shelters or tents without insulation, flooring or heating, UNHCR said. They include pregnant women, people with disabilities, and very young children. On nearby Samos, about 400 people are living in “very difficult” conditions and another 300, including families and lone children, are sleeping in tents in the woods due to a lack of space in the camp, UNHCR said.
8	9	Majority of Americans support National Guard on border: (Reuters) - A majority of Americans think President Donald Trump’s plan to send National Guard troops to the U. S. -Mexico border will be effective in combating illegal immigration in the short term, according to a Reuters/Ipsos poll from April 15-19. Here are some key findings from the poll: THINKING LONG TERM Fifty-five percent of U. S. adults think deploying the National Guard to the border will be effective in the short term, but only 49 percent think it will be effective in the long term. About 16 percent of Americans think it will be "very effective" short and long-term. PARTY LINES Seventy-seven percent of Republicans think deploying the National Guard will be effective in the short term, compared with just 42 percent of Democrats. A large majority of Trump voters - 85 percent - are confident in the plan in the short term. But people across both parties tend to be less sure it is a durable strategy, slipping to 73 percent for Republicans and 34 percent for Democrats. Fifteen percent of Trump voters also think it will be ineffective long-term. DEMOCRATS DIVIDED The poll shows Democrats are split over whether deploying the National Guard will curb illegal immigration.
42	8	Illegal immigrant found guilty in murder of family of five in San Francisco: An illegal immigrant from Vietnam faces life in prison after being convicted Monday in the 2012 hammer-killing of a family of five after losing money at a casino earlier in the evening. Binh Thai Luc, who had a violent criminal history and was supposed to be deported in 2006, was found guilty in the murders of a family of Chinese immigrants. He was also found guilty of five counts of attempted robbery and two counts of burglary. Luc, who was in debt and served an eviction notice, killed the family during a robbery after he lost money at a casino on March 23, 2012. Prosecutors said the family kept thousands of dollars in cash in the San Francisco home. Luc had more than $6,500 with him during his arrest. The jury was told that Luc settled his debt after the killings. “This was a very gruesome, brutal murder, and we’re pleased we’re getting some accountability for the family and for the community,” District Attorney George Gascón told The San Francisco Chronicle. Despite no eyewitness accounts of Luc’s involvement, investigators said one of the family member’s blood was found spattered on Luc’s jeans.
36	7	Federal Judge Halts Deportation Of Indonesian Christians In New Jersey: HIGHLAND PARK, N. J. (CBSNewYork/AP) — A federal judge has temporarily halted deportation proceedings against Indonesian Christians who are in the U. S. illegally but are seeking to gain legal status, including one man honored for his work helping to rebuild more than 200 homes after Superstorm Sandy. The order was issued Friday by U. S. District Judge Esther Salas in Newark in response to a lawsuit filed by the American Civil Liberties Union and applies to Indonesians who have orders of removal dating to before 2009. The order affects roughly 50 people in New Jersey who had identified themselves to Immigration and Customs Enforcement in 2009 as part of a program to obtain work authorization and stays of deportation, according to the ACLU and Seth Kaper-Dale, co-pastor of a church where some of the immigrants sought sanctuary. The lawsuit came after several enforcement actions by immigration authorities in New Jersey that targeted Indonesian Christians and rekindled fears in a community that includes people who left Indonesia years ago to escape religious persecution.
16	1	Confining children shouldn’t be part of the job for immigration agents: When asked about the controversy surrounding the separation of migrant children from their parents, Prime Minister Justin Trudeau remarked that “this is not the way we do things in Canada. ” He’s right, to a certain extent. The situation in Canada is not as stark as what we’re seeing in the United States where more than 2,900 children have been detained between May and June alone. Yet a total of 595 minors have been detained at Canadian immigration holding centres in the past three years. Forty-three were unaccompanied by an adult. We need to be asking why children — including Canadian citizens — are being held in jail-like detention facilities at all in this country, even if it’s with a parent. We should also be wondering how confining people who have committed no crime is impacting the workers tasked with placing them in conditions no one would want for their own families. I can’t help but imagine how I would feel if my 9-year-old daughter was held in a facility where she had little access to fresh air, education, and was constantly monitored by security personnel. The confinement of even one child should be unacceptable to every single one of us, particularly as we recall with shame this country’s legacy of residential schools.
282	8	Three killed after migrant boat sinks off coast of Spain: MADRID Three migrants from sub-Saharan Africa were killed when their boat capsized in the Mediterranean but the Spanish navy managed to rescue another 30 people in the group, a coast guard spokeswoman said on Wednesday. The navy went to rescue the migrants after their dinghy sank on Tuesday near the island of Alboran, halfway between Spain's southern coast and its North African enclave of Melilla. A 10 year-old girl and an older woman died on Tuesday, and police divers found the body of a man, whose age is unknown, near the scene of the sinking on Wednesday morning. "They are from sub-Saharan Africa, but we do not know which country," the spokeswoman said. Another woman was airlifted to hospital in the southern coastal town of Almeria, where the survivors arrived late on Tuesday. The coast guard saved another nine migrants, all sub-Saharan African men apparently in good health, from a small boat about 10. 5 miles (17 km) from the town of Tarifa on Spain's southernmost tip on Wednesday. One thousand migrants arrived in Spain from North Africa between Jan. 1 and April 9, and 47 died in the attempt during that time, the International Organization for Migration says.
299	2	PR, citizenship should not be defined by fees and papers alone: Mr Ernest Chen Zhengkai's idea to increase fees to apply for permanent resident status does not make sense (Charge higher fees to reflect value of PR, citizenship; April 13). If the fees were increased to $4,014, would it really attract fewer applicants? Those who can afford it would still apply. Should we, then, increase it to, say, $10,000 to make sure only genuine applicants apply? At what point do we stop raising it? In the end, deserving applicants who are not well-to-do may be deprived of a chance to apply. PR and citizenship should not be defined by fees and paper qualifications. They should be defined by how long a person lives in Singapore and his contribution and commitment to the country. They should be defined by how long a person lives here and his contribution and commitment to the country. factors such as volunteer work, tax records, business set-up and character are all considerations. Even if a person invests millions of dollars in Singapore, making him a contributor to our economy, other factors such as volunteer work, tax records, business set-up and character should all be considered. An applicant's success is not guaranteed.
281	8	Made in China 2025's Affect on US & Mexican Immigrant Talks Fight Against ICE: Made in China 2025's Affect on US & Mexican Immigrant Talks Fight Against ICE On this episode of The Critical Hour, with Dr. Wilmer Leon, we discuss the “Made in China 2025 Initiative” and where it will leave the US. Also, an immigrant-rights activist faces her second deportation hearing at Seattle Immigration Court while fighting for the rights of other migrants against I. C. E. Hear about her struggle. Caleb Maupin — Journalist and political analyst who focuses his coverage on US foreign policy and the global system of monopoly capitalism and imperialism. He has appeared on Russia Today, PressTV, Telesur, and other major networks. Maru Mora-Villalpando — Nationally known immigrant-rights activist and co-founder of the Latinx organization Mijente and a community organizer with Northwest Detention Center Resistance. We'd love to get your feedback at radio@sputniknews.
234	10	Top Hong Kong court grants U.K. lesbian right to spousal visa: Hong Kong’s top court ruled on Wednesday that a British lesbian should be granted a spousal visa in a landmark judgment that could open the door for expatriate same-sex partners to move to the Chinese-ruled city. The British woman, who requested to be identified only as QT in court, sued the director of immigration in 2014 after she was denied a spousal visa that would have granted her resident status and allowed her to work without the need for a separate visa. - Advertisement - In this file photo taken on November 6, 2015 people take part in the LGBTQ pride parade in Hong Kong. Isaac Lawrence / AFP/Getty Images The woman and her partner, a dual British and South African national identified only as SS and who was offered work in Hong Kong, had entered into a civil partnership in Britain. QT did not appear in court. “Although I cannot be with you in person today, that does not diminish the joy I feel, knowing that Hong Kong’s highest court has upheld my right, as a lesbian woman, to be treated equally by the Hong Kong government,” QT said in a statement.
313	5	NI secretary silent on budget for policing Border after Brexit: Northern Ireland secretary Karen Bradley has declined to say if the Police Service of Northern Ireland (PSNI) will receive more money and personnel to police the Border after Brexit when she introduces a budget for the North next week. Ms Bradley told the Northern Ireland Affairs Committee at Westminster that this week’s meeting of the British cabinet at Chequers would address issues that will help determine the nature of the challenges the PSNI will face after Britain leaves the EU. “The budget I’m taking through was put forward in March for the coming year,” she said. “In the normal course of business, spending bids come in and are considered. I’m not making any comment. They are still being considered and it would be inappropriate for me to say anything further. ” Orphaned chief Last week, PSNI chief constable George Hamilton told the committee that he felt orphaned by having nobody in government to liaise with over Brexit. But Ms Bradley said she had arranged for Mr Hamilton to have points of contact in the Treasury and the Department for Exiting the European Union to deal with his concerns. “We accept the PSNI has additional difficulties over other forces; the PSNI is the only force that will have to police a land border – a unique situation in the UK,” she said.
366	5	Trump on if US-Canada border is secure: 'You can never be totally: WASHINGTON, DC - FEBRUARY 13: U. S. President Donald Trump speaks as he participates in a joint news conference with Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau in the East Room of the White House on February 13, 2017 in Washington, DC. The two leaders participated in a roundtable discussion on the advancement of women entrepreneurs and business leaders. (Photo by Alex Wong/Getty Images) By Cox Media Group President Donald Trump and Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau met about their countries shared goals on Monday, but their contrasting views were also on display during a news conference where they talked about immigration and refugees. >> Read more trending stories Trump said "you can never be totally confident" that the northern border is secure in response to a question from a reporter. Here was the exchange: Reporter: "President Trump, you seem to suggest that Syrian refugees are a Trojan horse for potential terrorism, while the PM hugs refugees and welcomes them with open arms. Are you confident the northern border is secure? " Trump: "You can never be totally confident. But through the incredible efforts already, I see it happen … We're actually taking people that are criminals, that are very hardened criminals with a tremendous track record of abuse and problems, and we're getting them out.
177	9	China is planning to build 5 camps for North Korean refugees: China is planning to build five camps that could accommodate thousands of North Korean refugees, The New York Times reported Monday. According to The Times, a leaked document from state-run China Mobile that appeared on the microblogging site Weibo, said the telecommunications company was contacted to check for "viable internet service" at the five sites in the northeast border province of Jilin. “Because the situation on the China-North Korea border has intensified lately, Changbai County government plans to set up five refugee sites in Changbai,” the document reportedly stated. When questioned by The Times, a spokesperson for China's foreign ministry said they were not aware of reports about the refugee camps, but did not deny the plans to build them. Jilin has a large border with North Korea and is close to the nuclear-test site North Korean defectors often escape to China because of the countries' large shared border. Jilin province alone has a 200 kilometer (124 mile) border with North Korea and most of it is split by the narrow Tumen River, which is shallow enough to wade across in summer or walk on when frozen in winter. During North Korea's great famine of the 1990s, up to 300,000 North Koreans were estimated to have fled to China, most of them crossing the Tumen River.
485	7	Trump’s Pressure on Countries and International Organizations Erodes Protections for Asylum-Seekers: The text came from inside a Panamanian government outpost, set hours away from the country’s capital, on the edge of the Darien jungle. It had been written by a migrant who’d managed to smuggle a cellphone into the facility by hiding it in his shorts. He said authorities had detained him without providing him access to a lawyer or any means to communicate with relatives.
248	8	Government must resume DACA and accept new applications, federal judge rules: In the biggest setback yet for the Trump administration in its decision to end a program that protects undocumented young adults from deportation, a federal judge ruled Tuesday that the government must resume accepting new applications. Judge John D. Bates of U. S. District Court for the District of Columbia said that the government's decision to end the program, Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, or DACA, was predicated on the "virtually unexplained" grounds that the program is "unlawful. " The judge stayed his decision for 90 days, giving the Department of Homeland Security the opportunity to better explain its reasoning for canceling the program. The department, the judge wrote in his decision, "must accept and process new as well as renewal DACA applications. " DACA was officially rescinded by the government in March but the program has continued to accept renewals after previous court orders. About 700,000 unauthorized immigrants, the majority of them brought to the United States as children, had signed up for the Obama-era program since it was created in 2012. Advocates hailed the ruling, saying it highlighted the failure of the administration to justify terminating the program. "This decision verifies the Trump administration failed to prove the DACA program is illegal," said Ali Noorani, executive director of the National Immigration Forum, a Washington, D.
411	5	Opinion: EU refugee deal with Turkey full of hypocrisy: The deal between the European Union and Turkey exposes the mendacity of European policy with regard to the so-called refugee crisis. The deal is being presented as a success. The reality is anything but. The agreement stipulates that for every Syrian who legally enters Turkey and continues on to the EU, another refugee who has illegally entered the EU will be sent back to Turkey — so far, so good. In reality, numbers collected by the European Commission show the deal is not working at all. Since going into effect, some 12,500 immigrants have entered the EU from Turkey, yet only about 2,100 illegal immigrants have been sent back to Turkey during that same period. Clearly stated: Rather than the agreed upon 1-to-1 rule, the EU has taken in six times as many people as it has sent back to Turkey. The blame lies, however, not in Ankara but in Brussels. The EU is simply unable to process the sheer number of cases piling up in camps on the Greek isles in the Aegean Sea. The borders are not sealed But Turkey has failed to uphold its end of the deal as well.
444	6	U.N. worried over deportation of Cameroon separatists, faults Nigeria: The United Nations Refugee Agency, UNHCR, has officially commented on the deportation of Cameroonian separatists from Nigeria earlier this month. In a statement published on February 1, 2018; UNHCR said it was worried that Nigeria decided to deport people who had applied for asylum and more so at a time when they were engaging with the authorities. The statement faulted Nigeria for breaching international laws by forcibly deporting 47 suspected separatists. They also urged Yaounde to respect the rights of the detainees who are expected to be put before the courts. Below is the full statement UNHCR, the UN Refugee Agency, has learned with great concern of the forced return by Nigeria of 47 Cameroonians, who were handed over to the Cameroonian authorities on 26 January 2018. Most of the individuals in question had submitted asylum claims. Their forcible return is in violation of the principle of non-refoulement, which constitutes the cornerstone of international refugee law. The returns were carried out despite UNHCR’s efforts and engagement with the authorities. UNHCR reminds Nigeria of its obligations under international and Nigerian law, and urges the Nigerian Government to refrain from forcible returns of Cameroonian asylum-seekers back to their country of origin.
498	6	An Immigrant Died Building a Ship for the U.S. Government. His Family Got Nothing: On the morning of Jan. 22, 2024, Elmer De León Pérez descended deep into the bowels of a ship that he was helping to build in Houma, Louisiana. Pérez was a welder, working to construct one of the U.S. government’s most sophisticated ships, an $89 million vessel for tracking hurricanes and conducting oceanographic research. It was funded by President Joe Biden’s signature climate legislation.
246	1	What Trump Really Means When He Talks About Migrant Children, MS-13, and 'Animals': "This is the worst thing I've seen in 25 plus years of doing civil rights work." In 2018, now 17 months after Donald J. Trump rode a dark tornado of racial animus to the highest office in the land, the first fact that we must acknowledge on the subject of immigration is that there is no relationship between the influx of immigrants and crime. Study after study has confirmed: Immigrants commit crimes at a lower rate than native-born Americans. Moreover, the data, according to The Marshall Project, suggests that "immigration has the effect of reducing average crime" in communities, not to mention that net immigration from Mexico is below zero as more leave than enter. But Trump's campaign promises were never predicated on a careful deliberation of solid facts and hard truths. He laid his political ambitions on the racist lie that Barack Obama was not born in this country, and likewise his campaign and therefore his presidency were based on the racist lie that immigrants are predominately "illegal immigrants, drug dealers, traffickers, gang members." If Trump, as Adam Serwer asserts in The Atlantic, has only one scandal—the widespread and unprecedented corruption of the American government—his platform has one absolute: the raging demonization of non-whites as a threat to this country.
28	1	Samantha Bee Slams ‘Feckless C**t’ Ivanka Trump For Not Doing Something About Immigration: Samantha Bee is outraged that U. S. immigration authorities are separating undocumented children and their parents at the border. “Tearing children away from their parents is so evil, it’s the inciting incident in almost every movie we’ve ever cared about,” Bee said in the latest episode of “Full Frontal. ” To make matters worse, the administration has lost track of hundreds of children who were separated from their parents and placed in foster care. Enter Ivanka Trump, who posted a photo of herself and her son on Twitter last Sunday. That “oblivious tweet” sparked this plea from Bee: “You know, Ivanka, that’s a beautiful photo of you and your child, but let me just say, one mother to another, do something about your dad’s immigration practices, you feckless c**t! ” UPDATE: 2:26 p. m. ― Bee has since apologized for her remarks after receiving backlash from social media users, sponsors and even White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders. In a statement to HuffPost, Bee said: “I would like to sincerely apologize to Ivanka Trump and to my viewers for using an expletive on my show to describe her last night. It was inappropriate and inexcusable.
105	7	Recently Released Sex Offender Migrant Arrested For Raping A 13-Year-Old Girl: An 18-year-old Afghan asylum seeker has been arrested in the German city of Esslingen for the alleged rape of a 13-year-old girl, only a month after he was released from prison following a sex offence conviction. The Stuttgart Public Prosecutor’s Office and police in Reutlingen say that the asylum seeker committed the rape on Monday, but the 13-year-old victim did not report the incident until Wednesday after seeing the man again and being threatened by him, Süddeutsche Zeitung reports. Investigators say that the 13-year-old victim only recently became acquainted with the asylum seeker and that she had visited him on Monday when he forced her to have sexual intercourse with him. The incident comes after the 18-year-old was released from juvenile detention following a conviction for attempted rape, which saw him sentenced to a year in custody. He was allegedly out on parole at the time of the rape, though it is not clear what the exact conditions involved. Migrant Rape Attacks Up 91 Per Cent in Bavaria, Germany https://t. co/BysCJP4ecl — Breitbart London (@BreitbartLondon) September 14, 2017 The rape is just the latest in an epidemic of sex crimes involving young migrant men in Germany.
287	9	Bedford mosque raised nearly £4,000 to help Rohingya refugee crisis: Members of the Bedford Central Jammee Masjid & Islamic Cultural Centre have raised £3,646 to support the Rohingya refugee crisis. The fundraiser was supported by the local community in the Midland Road area with hopes the funds will help provide clean water and water for the refugees in Bangldesh. According to Oxfam more than 500,000 Rohingya people have fled Myanmar in recent weeks. According to reports around 1,400 Rohingya children have arrived in Bangladesh near the Myanmar border without their parents, who were either killed or are missing following the violence in Rakhine. A spokesman for the Mosque in Brereton Road, Bedford, said: “Here at the Mosque we felt we needed to do something to help these people. The Masjid congregation supported the appeal generously and have raised £3,646 last Friday after Jumuh Prayer(congregation), at the Bedford Central Jamee Masjid and Islamic Cultural Centre.”
196	10	Police: 17 immigrants locked inside rig at Texas truck stop: EDINBURG, Texas (AP) — Police in Texas acting on a tip found 17 immigrants locked inside a tractor-trailer parked at a gas station about 20 miles (30 kilometers) from the border with Mexico. Edinburg Assistant Police Chief Oscar Trevino tells KGBT-TV that the immigrants from Mexico, Honduras and other countries may have been locked inside the 18-wheeler for at least eight hours before being freed by officers in Edinburg late Sunday morning. None of the people inside the tractor-trailer required medical attention. A man and woman who Trevino said are Cuban nationals were in charge of the rig and have been detained. Edinburg police went to the gas station, a popular stopover for commercial truck drivers traveling through the region, after receiving an anonymous call from someone saying a relative was trapped inside the tractor-trailer with several others. Officers began knocking on the sides of trailers parked at the station and eventually received return knocks from the one holding the immigrants, police said. A spokeswoman for U. S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement says the agency is investigating the matter. The discovery comes more than three weeks after 10 people died and several others were rescued from a sweltering rig parked at a Walmart in San Antonio.
365	6	Families reunite at border during “Hugs Not Walls” event: SUNLAND PARK, N.M. (KRQE) – Families separated by the U.S. Mexico border were temporarily reunited in New Mexico this weekend. During the “Hugs Not Walls” meeting at Sunland Park, authorities allowed both sides to visit with relative across the border. Many of these families have not seen each other for years. Hundreds of families showed up to the event.
137	6	Syrian child refugees taught to release stress and resist recruitment: By Sally Hayden BEIRUT (Thomson Reuters Foundation) - The screams of a dozen Syrian and Palestinian children pierce the air of a community center in Lebanon's Shatila refugee camp. Yet the children are not hurt. They are yelling to express the anger and fear they feel as victims of conflict in special "peace education" classes. "We don't hit each other. We don't say bad things about each other. Boys don't hit girls," said 11-year-old Hala, who asked not to be identified for security reasons. Hala fled Deir el Zor in Syria and has been living in Lebanon for less than two years. She said one of her favorite activities is "playback", where each child will tell a story or describe a situation that is bothering them and will have the other children act it out. Organized by Basmeh and Zeitooneh, a local charity, the classes in a chaotic fifth floor room were set up to help children voice their opinions, release the stress caused by war and displacement and rediscover their imaginations, staff say. They hope by providing children with activities such as painting, dram and storytelling, they will be less vulnerable to recruitment by militant groups preying on children and teenagers who may be out of school with little to occupy them.
437	6	On patrol America's most dangerous border, the Rio Grande: The seven illegals had been abandoned in the 30 degree heat just 200 yards from the border. Their lips were blue and one, dressed only in a hoodie, was dangerously cold. The reason for their abandonment? The 'coyotes' who smuggled them across had in reality used them as a distraction for their more lucrative trade: Drugs. As the Border Patrol rushed to detain the four men, two women, and a boy who said he was 16, the 'coyotes' - a nickname for the ruthless people smugglers - were rushing to secure their cargo of bales of marijuana, hoping law enforcement would pay attention to saving lives and let them get on with their trade. The migrants' brush with death was ended by the Border Patrol agents of the Rio Grande division - a routine day on America's most dangerous border where just across the valley is Tamaulipas, a part of Mexico the State Department says is so unsafe that U. S. citizens should simply never go there, like Syria or Afghanistan. DailyMailTV has had unprecedented access to the Rio Grande Valley in South Texas, spending three days on the ground with agents who serve on foot, in pick-ups and on horseback - and in the air with some of the 3,000 agents who try to keep it safe.
442	7	Why citizenship could be a question on the 2020 Census: The Trump administration wants the Census to include a question about citizenship, and Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross has until April 1 to decide if it will. It has been 68 years since the official U. S. Census inquired about citizenship. The question was dropped after 1950, but in December, the Justice Department sent a letter to the Census Bureau requesting the citizenship question in the 2020 Census. The Justice Department said it needs the information to comply with the Voting Rights Act. The department is required to protect voting rights and prevent racial discrimination in the drawing of congressional districts. But it may be enforcement of the National Voter Registration Act, which requires maintenance of accurate voter lists, that will be most affected by the citizenship question. The state of California and the county of Los Angeles are currently being sued by Judicial Watch and the Election Integrity Project California over the failure to maintain accurate and up-to-date voter registration records. Judicial Watch calculated that in Los Angeles County, 144 percent of the citizen voting-age population is registered to vote. Secretary of State Alex Padilla recently told the editorial board of this newspaper that Judicial Watch was using inaccurate population numbers to arrive at that figure.
263	7	Cold Claims Immigrant Lives, Border Patrol Helps Save Others: It wasn’t the usual heat, but the unusual cold that claimed the lives of several undocumented immigrants crossing through the treacherous South Texas brush late last week. Border Patrol agents from the Falfurrias station found the bodies of three immigrants on Brooks County ranchland. The same day, agents from the McAllen station found an immigrant near Hidalgo who was in distress from the cold and who died after being taken to the hospital. Elsewhere, Laredo sector Border Patrol officials say agents detained more than 20 immigrants in four different locations – some of who were suffering from hypothermia. Further west, agents came across another group of immigrants on a mountain near Marfa, where one person had died. 14 others were in varying stages of hypothermia. A Border Patrol Air Operations unit helped take the immigrants off the mountain and get them to treatment.
207	8	2 wrongfully convicted immigrants face uncertain future - WAFB 9 News Baton Rouge, Louisiana News, Weather, Sports: CHICAGO (AP) - Freedom was short-lived for two Mexican immigrants recently released after nearly 20 years in an Illinois prison when a judge ruled their confessions in a gruesome double-murder case were likely coerced. Gabriel Solache and Arturo DeLeon-Reyes, who were freed in December, were immediately detained again. This time they're awaiting deportation proceedings from Immigration and Customs Enforcement because they entered the country illegally. They are among several defendants who have walked free because their cases were handled by Reynaldo Guevara, a discredited former Chicago detective facing allegations that for years he beat and bullied defendants to obtain false confessions.
441	8	Trump calls for stricter immigration policy after NYC attack: The Trump administration re-upped its call for tighter immigration restrictions Monday following an attempted bombing in New York City, in the passageway under 42nd Street connecting the subway stations at Times Square and the Port Authority Bus Terminal. The suspect in the Monday morning attack, Akayed Ullah, 27, was from Bangladesh and entered the country in February 2011 on an immigrant visa, CBS News confirmed. He became a legal permanent resident of the United States. Officials said Ullah detonated one low-tech explosive device that injured him and caused minor injuries to five other people within range of the blast. CBS News learned that Ullah claims he was acting in the name of the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS). He has no previous criminal record. "Today's attempted mass murder attack in New York City -- the second terror attack in New York in the last two months -- once again highlights the urgent need for Congress to enact legislative reforms to protect the American people," Mr. Trump said in a statement released by the White House Monday. "America should always stand firm against terrorism and extremism, ensuring that our great institutions can address all evil acts of terror," his statement reads.
6	4	Denied Care and Held in 'Ice Box' Cell, Asylum Seeker's Death in ICE Custody Exposes Systemic Neglect and Abuse: Immigrant rights groups are blaming ICE for the death of a transgender woman who died last Friday after seeking asylum at the U. S. -Mexico border and being held in the agency's custody for two weeks. The woman's death calls attention to the brutal treatment faced by immigrants held in ICE facilities, advocates say--cruelty that existed under the Obama administration and has worsened under President Donald Trump. Thirty-three year old Roxsana Hernandez had arrived in the U. S. on May 9 with the migrant caravan of hundreds of people who had traveled through Mexico from Central America earlier this spring. Hernandez was HIV-positive, and according to the group Pueblo Sin Frontera, which had organized the caravan, she died after having been held for several days in a cold cell known as an "ice box" at the San Ysidro port of entry. Diversidad Sin Fronteras and Al Otro Lado joined the group in asserting that ICE was to blame for Hernandez's death, saying that she was given inadequate food and medical care and was held in a cell where the lights were on 24 hours a day. "Roxy died due to medical negligence by U.
116	3	The real immigration story that both sides ignore: As the immigration debate hit another low last week, I received the news that my favorite immigrant died: my father-in-law, Paul Gavora. I don’t want to politicize Paul’s story too much, or really at all. For me, the man wasn’t a talking point; he was a hero. Still, one of the things about today’s immigration debate that breaks my heart is how both sides have lost the plot. There are legitimate policy arguments on all sides, but the story of immigration is getting slaughtered in the crossfire. Consider my father-in-law. Born Vladimir Gavora in 1931, in the then-Czechoslovakian (today just Slovakian) village of Brezova pod Bradlom, Vlad grew up fast. When he was 7, the Germans invaded. When he was 13, his father died. The same year, the Red Army moved in. He saw things then he didn’t like to talk about. In 10th grade, he was expelled for questioning Communist doctrine in class. In his day, it was the teachers who were snowflakes. Expulsion slammed a door on any future he might have had at home. So in 1948, he swam the Danube by moonlight to escape the Communists. He made it to an Austrian refugee camp, where they sent him to Germany to finish high school.
257	7	Turkish staff of Pak-Turk schools seeks refugee status: ISLAMABAD: After having no other option to survive amid pressure of Pakistani government to leave the country with expired visas as many as 98 staff of Pak-Turk International Schools, along with their families, has sought refugee status in the country through United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR). Reliable officials told The News that a total of 108 staff of the Pak-Turk schools applied for the refugee status as 10 people along with their families managed to leave the country earlier because of unexpired visas. As many as 98 people, along with their nearly 250 members of families, have been placed under the UNHCR protection with the issuance of temporary certificate of “asylum seeker”. The UNHCR will further take up their applications to notify them as a certified refugees for a certain time period or may consider their requests to rehabilitate them in a third country. Following pressure and visit of Turkey’s President Recept Tayyip Erdogan to Islamabad, last November, federal government ordered these teachersand staff to leave Pakistan within 72 hours. These teachers and staff served Pakistan, overall, for a period of 20 years. However, the staff moved Islamabad High Court against this sudden move and demanded time and extension in visas, a matter which the court further referred to the Ministry of Interior.
386	7	Somali Immigrants Have Abandoned Kansas Town After Bomb Plot: Somali Immigrants Have Abandoned Kansas Town After Bomb Plot Three militia members go on trial Tuesday for plotting to bomb Somali immigrants working in the Kansas Meatpacking Triangle, a constellation of minority-majority, hardscrabble pioneer towns, that depend on foreign labor. Somali immigrants have all but abandoned one town, despite civic and police efforts to reassure them that they're safe there. Some residents want them to return.
296	7	EU warns Poland that it has 24 hours to start taking in refugees: Migrants and refugees queue to enter the Regugees centre near Porte de La Chapelle, AFP The EU has issued a 24-hour warning to Czech Republic, Hungary and Poland saying that they have to start taking in refugees under an EU migrant-sharing plan. Heartbreaking note found in debris of Grenfell Tower The three countries immediately rebuffed the threat and appeared ready to go to court. The European Commission said in a statement that it has repeatedly urged them to relocate refugees or at least pledge to do so under the legally-binding refugee plan agreed two years ago. But it said they have failed to take action ‘in breach of their legal obligations,’ and that it “has decided to launch infringement procedures. ” The plan to share 160,000 refugees in overwhelmed Italy and Greece among other European countries over two years was endorsed in September 2015 by a qualified majority vote. Police patrol a huge fire at the Grande-Synthe migrant camp outside the northern French city of Dunkirk late April 10, 2017 AFP It was seen as a major plank of the EU’s migration policy, and was lauded as a pan-European show of solidarity in 2015 when more than a million people arrived in Europe seeking sanctuary or jobs.
303	10	Millions of empty homes, but migrants to Indian cities cannot rent them: MUMBAI, Feb 2 (Thomson Reuters Foundation) - Tens of thousands of people migrating to Indian cities each day cannot find adequate housing, as rental markets shrink despite millions of homes remaining vacant, government data shows. The share of rental housing in cities has fallen by nearly half over the past five decades, according to the government’s annual economic survey released this week. Rent control, unclear property rights, and a focus on building homes for ownership rather than renting are at the root of the problem, it said. “Policies related to housing need to recognise that India has an increasingly fluid population (and) that across the income spectrum, rental housing is an important foothold into a city for new arrivals,” the survey said. A quarter of India’s urban population lives in informal housing, including slums, due to the critical shortage of affordable accommodation, according to the social consultancy firm FSG in Mumbai. That number is likely to increase with migration from the countryside to cities, as people seek better job prospects. A government plan to provide housing for all by 2022 is meant to create 20 million new urban housing units and 30 million rural homes.
22	8	US receives over 5,000 tips on H-1B visa fraud: Official: More than 5,000 complaints of H-1B visa fraud and abuse have been received by a federal agency on a dedicated email helpline that was launched by the Trump administration last year, an official said. “As of May 21, 2018, the USCIS has received over 5,000 tips to the dedicated H-1B email address,” Philip Smith, a Spokesperson for the US Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) told PTI. After US President Donald Trump Signed “Buy American, Hire American” executive order last year, Fraud Detection and National Security Directorate (FDNS) established email addresses dedicated to receiving information about suspected H-1B and H-2B fraud or abuse. FDNS leads USCIS’s efforts to combat immigration benefit fraud. The USCIS, however, did not provide any other details with regard to the nature of complaints, the companies involved and which country’s high-tech professionals were the victims of H-1B visa fraud and abuse. “Pursuant to the Buy American, Hire American Executive Order, FDNS has helped the agency investigate the H-1B program to protect American workers,” Smith said. Employers who abuse H-1B visa program may negatively affect US workers, decreasing wages and opportunities as they import more workers from abroad, it said.
250	7	60 migrants refused by Italy and Malta arrive in Barcelona | The Tribune: In this photo taken on Monday, July 2, 2018, migrant women look at a crew's computer aboard the Open Arms aid boat, of Proactiva Open Arms Spanish NGO. Spain's government said Barcelona will be the docking port for the aid boat traveling with 60 migrants rescued on Saturday in waters near Libya and rejected by both Italy and Malta.
189	7	The Koch Brothers Are Siding With Democrats In The Latest DACA Fight: Democrats negotiating a pathway to citizenship for young, undocumented immigrants with the Trump administration have an unusual new ally: The influential network of political groups led by billionaires Charles and David Koch. The network is urging the White House to accept a deal with Democratic leadership that would grant a pathway to citizenship for immigrants known as DREAMers in exchange for $25 billion in border wall funding, officials told BuzzFeed News Monday night, as negotiations were ongoing. The White House, according to reports, is pushing instead for extending protections for those immigrants until 2020 in exchange for border funding. Either deal would part of a must-pass spending bill to fund the government later this week. The Koch network has typically sided with the Trump administration on policy proposals, but on immigration, they have increasingly diverging views. “We have long said that Congress and the White House should come together on a bipartisan agreement to provide the certainty of permanent statutory relief for the Dreamers in exchange for enhanced security for our nation," said Daniel Garza, president of The LIBRE Initiative. Brent Gardner, chief government affairs officer of Americans for Prosperity, added in the statement, “If news reports are true that the White House and congressional Democrats discussed including in the omnibus appropriations bill $25 billion for President Trump’s border request in exchange for a permanent solution for Dreamers, then that’s an offer all parties should immediately accept.
468	6	Trump to sign executive order Tuesday targeting H1-B visas: WASHINGTON — President Donald Trump is planning to sign an executive order that seeks to make changes to the H1-B visa program that brings in high-skilled workers. Trump is heading Tuesday to Kenosha, Wisconsin, where he plans to sign an order dubbed “Buy American, Hire American,” said administration officials who spoke on the condition of anonymity despite the president’s frequent criticism of the use of anonymous sources. The officials said the order, which Trump will sign at the headquarters of tool manufacturer Snap-on, would direct the departments of Homeland Security, Justice, Labor and State to propose new rules to prevent immigration fraud and abuse. Those departments would also be asked to offer changes so that H-1B visas are awarded to the “most-skilled or highest-paid applicants. ” The White House said the program is currently undercutting American workers by bringing in cheaper labor and said some tech companies are using it to hire large numbers of workers and drive down wages. Administration officials said the order also seeks to strengthen requirements that American-made products be used in certain federal construction projects, as well as in various federal transportation grant-funded projects. The officials said the commerce secretary will review how to close loopholes in enforcing the existing rules and provide recommendations to the president.
55	6	Hungarian govt looks to Constitution to keep immigrants out: BUDAPEST, Hungary (AP) — The Hungarian government proposed constitutional amendments and a new law Tuesday that are intended to prevent Hungary "from becoming an immigrant country" by further tightening its policies on accepting refugees and asylum-seekers. The law submitted to parliament would make it a criminal offense punishable by up to a year in prison to promote or facilitate "illegal migration. " Dubbed "Stop Soros" by the government, it partly targets civic groups, some supported by Hungarian-American financier George Soros, which offer legal and other aid to asylum-seekers. The Hungarian Helsinki Committee, one of the groups most vilified by Prime Minister Viktor Orban's anti-immigration government, said its activities were lawful and called the proposal "unacceptable in a democratic state. " The bill "threatens to lock up and imprison those who behave legally in the defense of Hungary's human rights obligations," the group said. The constitutional amendments put forward add language saying that "foreign populations cannot be settled in Hungary" and would place additional limits on eligibility for asylum. For example, people who entered Hungary from a country where they were not persecuted or threatened with persecution would be ineligible. Since most asylum-seekers from the Middle East and Asia reach Hungary from Serbia, they would be unlikely to meet the new requirement.
339	7	Amid travel ban turmoil, Trump to visit Supreme Court this week: President Donald Trump is expected to pay his first visit to the Supreme Court on Thursday. His words and actions precede him. Trump's planned drop-by for the official investiture of Justice Neil Gorsuch comes as the president's lawyers make almost daily filings with the justices in an attempt to revive his ban on refugees and travelers from six mostly Muslim countries. The court could decide by next week whether to allow Trump's executive order to go into effect or follow the lead of lower courts that have stopped the order because they say it exceeds the president's authority and discriminates unconstitutionally. It's unlikely the high-stakes legal maneuvering will be mentioned Thursday, nor Trump's blasts at the federal judiciary in general and some of the justices specifically. Trump has called Chief Justice John Roberts "an absolute disaster" for conservatives. After Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg in interviews last summer called Trump a "faker" and said she feared for the country if he were elected, Trump responded by saying that "her mind is shot" and that she should retire. Since then, Roberts administered the oath of office to Trump on Inauguration Day, and all of the justices attended a Rose Garden ceremony after the Senate confirmed Gorsuch's nomination.
44	6	Greek soccer hero helps refugees win battle against boredom: SKARAMANGAS, Greece (AP) — Soccer fans of a certain age may still remember Antonis Nikopolidis for his resemblance to American actor George Clooney and as the goalkeeper who helped Greece become surprise European Champions in 2004. Now the country's national youth team coach, Nikopolidis is helping refugees stranded in Greece regain a sense of purpose. The soccer team he helped build, named Hope (Elpida in Greek), is made up of players who fled warzones in Syria, Yemen, Iraq and Afghanistan. Most of Hope's players live in Skaramangas, an industrial zone west of Athens where metal containers have been turned into shoebox-shaped homes. They compete in an amateur league on Sundays, facing teams made up of lawyers, telecom workers and accountants. Nikopolidis, a soft-spoken 46-year-old whose hair has turned silver in retirement, says team practices and matches provide a welcome distraction for young men facing uncertain futures in the European Union's slow-moving relocation program. "We're helping people who are at a difficult moment in their lives," he said. "They are guests in our country, and we are trying with this team to give them a few hours of happiness." Soccer is the main source of entertainment for many of the 60,000 refugees and economic migrants living in camps around Greece while they wait for asylum applications to be processed and a possible move elsewhere in Europe.
377	7	Supreme Court won’t hear case challenging government’s expedited removal of undocumented immigrants: × Supreme Court won’t hear case challenging government’s expedited removal of undocumented immigrants The Supreme Court on Monday left in place a lower court opinion rejecting claims by undocumented Central American women and children — who were apprehended immediately after arriving in the country without authorization — seeking asylum. Lawyers for the families sought to challenge their expedited removal proceedings in federal court arguing they face gender-based violence at home, but a Philadelphia-based federal appeals court held that they have no right to judicial review of such claims. The court’s action means the government can continue to deny asylum seekers placed in expedited removal a chance to have their cases heard by federal court. Justice Neil Gorsuch, who has his first full week on the court starting Monday, did not participate in the decision. The case, initially brought under the Obama administration, comes as the Trump administration has vowed to more strictly enforce immigration laws. Originally, 28 mothers and their children entered the US border in Texas in late 2015. They were immediately placed in expedited removal proceedings. Represented by the American Civil Liberties Union, they argue they suffered “gender-based violence, including sexual assault, by men from whom they could not escape” and that they were targeted by gangs because “they are single women residing without a male household member to protect them.
397	8	Supreme Court agrees to hear immigration law detention case: Supreme Court agrees to hear immigration law detention case WASHINGTON (AP) — The Supreme Court has agreed to decide whether federal immigration law gives the government the power to indefinitely detain any noncitizen it is considering deporting if the person previously committed certain crimes. The Supreme Court agreed Monday to consider the issue. Immigration law says that if noncitizens commit a crime for which they can be deported, the government should take them into custody for potential removal when they're released from prison or jail. A person detained immediately can be held indefinitely. The government argues the same is true if the person is released and then later detained for possible removal. The U. S. Court of Appeals for the 9th Circuit ruled that noncitizens not promptly detained must be given the opportunity to be released on bond.
280	7	The Latest: Migrant exodus from Libya amid warm weather: BERLIN — The Latest on migration issues in Europe (all times local): 2:05 p. m. Aid groups say the recent spike in Mediterranean migrant rescues corresponds with improved weather conditions and the looming start of beefed-up Libyan coast guard patrols that could block migrants from reaching Europe. Over Easter weekend, rescue ships plucked some 8,360 people from 55 different rubber dinghies and wooden boats off Libya's coast. Thirteen bodies were also recovered. While such numbers are not unusual, they come as Italy is due to deliver patrol boats to Libya in coming weeks as part of a new EU-blessed migration deal. An International Organization of Migration spokesman says smugglers are telling customers: "You have to hurry up and leave the country right now because otherwise in a couple of months you will be rescued by the Libyan coast guard and you will be sent back. " ___ 12:30 p. m. German authorities say there were 169 violent offences against homes for asylum-seekers last year, almost as many as in 2015, though the figures sank as the year progressed. The Federal Criminal Police Office said Tuesday that the number of violent offences compared with 177 the previous years.
187	1	Cruz: Revoke Citizenship of Americans Who Join ISIS: Cruz: Revoke Citizenship of Americans Who Join ISIS I simply adore Ted Cruz. He’s absolutely right here. If an American citizen tries to join ISIS or any other terrorist group, they should have their citizenship stripped. That means for those who go overseas to wage Jihad, the door will no longer be open to them to return here. And before the left starts screeching over this, Hillary Clinton supported very similar legislation. Cruz supports President’s Trump embattled plan to temporarily ban refugees from seven Middle Eastern countries. So do I. He just thinks it only addresses half the problem and he has a point. We don’t want trained, battle hardened Jihadists returning to the US after going on a killing spree. When previous versions of this bill were submitted, some civil libertarians threw a fit. They claim it would give the federal government expanded powers to revoke citizenship without due process. That’s rich considering they never decried Obama’s extension of federal powers. Under Cruz’s bill, anyone who lost their citizenship over alleged terrorist ties would have 60 days to request a due process hearing to challenge the decision. “The awesome and horrible power of being able to take away the citizenship of an American citizen would be turned over to an unnamed bureaucrat,” claimed Christopher Anders, senior legislative counsel for the American Civil Liberties Union’s Washington legislative office.
88	8	Germany deports 69 failed asylum-seekers to Afghanistan: BERLIN (AP) — German authorities say they have deported 69 Afghans whose asylum requests were rejected back to their home country. A plane carrying the men from Munich to Kabul landed in the Afghan capital early Wednesday. It was one of the largest collective deportation flights yet organized by Germany, which has vowed to step up the removal of people who don't have a right to remain in the country. The state interior minister of Bavaria, where 51 of the men had been living, welcomed the deportation flight. Joachim Herrmann noted that unlimited deportations to Afghanistan had recently been approved by Germany's federal authorities. In recent years deportations to Afghanistan were limited to people with criminal convictions.
340	8	Trump order would target high skilled worker visa program: WASHINGTON — President Donald Trump is planning to sign an executive order that seeks to make changes to a visa program that brings in high-skilled workers. Trump is heading Tuesday to Kenosha, Wisconsin, where he plans to sign an order dubbed "Buy American, Hire American," said administration officials who spoke on the condition of anonymity despite the president's frequent criticism of the use of anonymous sources. The officials said the order, which Trump will sign at the headquarters of tool manufacturer Snap-on Inc. , would direct the departments of Homeland Security, Justice, Labor and State to propose new rules to prevent immigration fraud and abuse. Those departments would also be asked to offer changes so that H-1B visas are awarded to the "most-skilled or highest-paid applicants. " The White House said the program is currently undercutting American workers by bringing in cheaper labour and said some tech companies are using it to hire large numbers of workers and drive down wages. Administration officials said the order also seeks to strengthen requirements that American-made products be used in certain federal construction projects, as well as in various federal transportation grant-funded projects. The officials said the commerce secretary will review how to close loopholes in enforcing the existing rules and provide recommendations to the president.
206	10	Arizona couldn’t defy the feds on immigration and neither can California: The United States is suing California over immigration. Six years ago, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled for the federal government against a state government in an almost perfectly reverse-image case. Arizona had passed a state law in response to what Arizona thought was under-enforcement of the immigration laws by President Obama. California has passed state laws in response to too much enforcement of those laws by President Trump. Arizona had made the federal crime of illegal entry a state crime as well. To help enforce that law, the state ordered its sheriffs, police, and state troopers to inquire about immigration status whenever an individual was arrested for a non-immigration related crime. Arizona also made it a crime for someone illegally in our country to seek employment in Arizona. The state’s purpose was to dissuade illegal immigration. Arizona argued that its law did not contradict federal immigration law; indeed, it directly reinforced it. The Obama Administration responded that, nonetheless, it was the president’s prerogative to decide how vigorously to enforce the immigration laws. Arizona was upsetting the balance the federal government had chosen relative to immigration. It was lending its weight to the pro-enforcement side at a time when the president might have wanted to go light on enforcing this law.
424	6	Indian professionals are happy with the contours of Donald Trump's latest immigration policy: The land of the brave and home of the free is the most prized destination for Indian immigrants. After the recent fracas over immigration, US President Donald Trump 's first State of the Union address earlier this week focussed on a plan to push for meritbased immigration system, ending the visa lottery programme and limiting family-based migration. All this comes as music to the ears of thousands of skilled Indians, waiting on what seem endless queues for green cards. "It is time to begin moving towards a merit-based immigration system — one that admits people who are skilled, who want to work, who will contribute to our society, and who will love and respect our country," Trump said. Later, on Thursday, an official communication from the White House further insisted that the time had come to enact common-sense reforms to base immigration on individual merit and skill. "The flood of low-skilled immigrants into the US has suppressed wages, harmed American workers and strained federal resources," the White House said as it defended Trump's proposal for a meritbased immigration system. According to the White House, countries like Canada and Australia use a merit-based immigration system that benefits both the immigrants and those nations.
245	7	For Immigrant Students, a New Worry: A Call to ICE: Data shows that students of color are disproportionately arrested at school, and advocates and educators contend that schools will increasingly rely on law enforcement to manage disciplinary issues if the guidance is rescinded. In Houston, Mr. Rivera-Sarmiento’s run-in with the law still divides the community. Some remain convinced that Mr. Rivera-Sarmiento’s status does not exempt him from criminal and immigration laws. Others believe the district unfairly subjected him to them. Mr. Rivera-Sarmiento said he was arrested at his school after he defended himself against an attack from a schoolmate. She had teased him incessantly, he and his lawyer said, on this day calling him a “wetback” before throwing a bottle of Gatorade at him. He pushed her down on the ground before running across the street to flee the area. When he returned to the school’s campus a few minutes later, he approached the school police officer to report what had happened. He was hoping for help, he said, but was escorted to the principal’s office in handcuffs. He was charged with misdemeanor assault. The officer took him to the county jail, run by the Harris County Sheriff’s Office, which is required by state law to cooperate with immigration enforcement.
17	8	Judge gives Trump administration 90 days to explain move to end DACA: A federal judge condemned President Trump's decision to end the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program as "unlawful," saying its justification for doing so has been "virtually unexplained. " U. S. District Court Judge John Bates, the third federal judge and the first Republican appointee to rule against Trump administration attempts to kill DACA, wrote in a Tuesday opinion that the Department of Homeland Security has 90 days to provide him with a more compelling reason for rolling back the Obama-era program, otherwise he could order its restoration. “DACA’s rescission was arbitrary and capricious because the Department failed adequately to explain its conclusion that the program was unlawful,” Bates wrote. "Neither the meager legal reasoning nor the assessment of litigation risk provided by DHS to support its rescission decision is sufficient to sustain termination of the DACA program," he continued. A Justice Department spokesman told Politico DOJ would continue to "vigorously defend" its position. "DACA was implemented unilaterally after Congress declined to extend benefits to this same group of illegal aliens. As such, it was an unlawful circumvention of Congress,” spokesman Devin O'Malley wrote in a statement.
201	6	Lost Man in the Desert is Rescued by Border Patrol Agents: El Centro Sector Border Patrol Search Trauma and Rescue (BORSTAR) agents rescued a man who was lost in the desert Monday afternoon. At approximately 2:30 p. m. , California Highway Patrol notified El Centro Sector radio that a man had called their dispatch claiming to be lost in the desert. Agents obtained GPS coordinates from the man's phone and were able to narrow the search area. Border Patrol Agents assigned to BORSTAR responded to the Carrizo wash area, as did agents on duty assigned to the S2 immigration checkpoint. BORSTAR agents were able to locate the man at approximately 3:50 p. m. He appeared to be in good health and did not require medical attention. The man was transported to the El Centro Border Patrol Station for further care and investigation. It is unknown how he became lost. The El Centro Sector Community Awareness Campaign is a program to raise public awareness on the indicators of crime and other threats. They encourage public and private sector employees to remain vigilant and play a key role in keeping our country safe. Photos Shooting at GOP Congressional Baseball Practice Report any suspicious activity to the Border Community Threat Hotline at 1-800-901-2003.
258	9	BREAKING: Israel cancels plan to expel African migrants: Israel has cancelled plans to expel African migrants who entered the Jewish state illegally after failing to find a country willing to host them, the government said on Tuesday. The plan had targeted some 42,000 migrants of Eritrean and Sudanese origin currently living in Israel. Government legal advisers informed the Supreme Court of the plan’s cancellation after certain unspecified countries refused to host the migrants, sources close to the government said. Details later.
255	8	Hungary’s ‘Stop Soros’ bill seeks to criminalise migrant helpers: Individuals or NGOs that help illegal migrants gain status in Hungary could face prison sentences under a new set of government laws, informally known as the 'Stop Soros' plan. The legislation is part of the right-wing Prime Minister Viktor Orbán government's campaign against George Soros- a Hungarian-born billionaire financier and philanthropist. Orbán's government has vilified Soros the past year as the main backer of illegal migration to Europe. “Those who provide financial means . . . or conduct this organisational activity on a regular basis will be punishable with up to one year in prison,” said the official text of the proposals. Meaning that anyone who gives a migrant a sandwich, blanket, or even a bottle of water could end up behind bars. “We need an action plan to defend Hungary and this is the Stop Soros package of Bills,” the interior ministry added in a comment. In contrast to earlier versions, the latest draft of the Bill, submitted to parliament on Tuesday, does not propose compulsory security checks for NGOs that work with migrants or a 25 percent tax on their foreign funding. The constitution would also be amended to stop other EU countries from transferring asylum seekers to Hungary, which rejects European Union quotas to distribute migrants around the bloc.
300	8	BREXIT BORDER MADNESS: Rees-Mogg urges UK to follow Swiss model after Daily Express probe: Mr Rees-Mogg issued a rallying cry after the Daily Express saw at first hand how the Swiss manage to avoid a hard border by using technology and assessing risk. Surrounded by EU member states, its borders with Germany, France, Italy and Austria run smoothly despite it remaining resolutely outside the customs union. This, he said, was a prime example of how the EU is capable of resolving complex border issues when it wants to. Mr Rees-Mogg said: “As the Daily Express reports the Swiss border is extremely effective. The system has been running for years so it would be possible to have something even more efficient between the UK and the EU. " The Swiss model is an example of what can be achieved if the political will is there Jacob Rees-Mogg “There is no need for a hard border in Northern Ireland, or for controls to be at the border, they can all be arranged remotely. “If the bureaucrats in Zurich can find a solution to the border I am sure the mandarins of Whitehall can do even better. “The Swiss model is an example of what can be achieved if the political will is there.
145	3	Colombia opens border shelter for Venezuelans fleeing crisis: BOGOTA — Colombia's government has opened its first shelter for Venezuelans who are pouring across the border in ever-larger numbers to escape their nation's economic crisis. The bare-bones shelter opened Saturday near the border city of Cucuta will provide shelter of up to 48 hours for 120 people a day. Pregnant mothers, the elderly and minors who entered the country legally will be given priority. It will be administered by the Red Cross. Cucuta has been overwhelmed in recent weeks by an increasingly large exodus of Venezuelans. Many are sleeping on the streets and crime in the city has spiked as gangs recruit and take advantage of the desperate migrants. Some 35,000 Venezuelans cross into Colombia each day, many of them settling in with relatives or making short trips to buy food and medicine that has been scarce for years back home. But the numbers have surged in recent months, with an estimated 200,000 now looking to stay, as four-digit inflation plunges the oil-rich nation deeper into the abyss. Not all of them have been embraced amid growing hysteria that the economic refugees are stealing jobs and overwhelming already-stretched resources. Last week, authorities deported 130 Venezuelans who entered the country illegally and were sleeping outdoors on a basketball court in Cucuta.
155	8	For Syrian Refugees In Turkey, A Long Road To Regular Employment: In a neighborhood of Istanbul that's plastered with Arabic signs, a Syrian refugee whips up his specialty — avocado cream smoothies — at the small, colorful cafe where he works. Majd al-Hassan has been in Turkey for two years, but has yet to learn much Turkish. He doesn't need to. This area is filled with fellow Syrians. He's paid in cash, under the table, and has yet to really integrate into Turkish society, he acknowledges. "We've got Syrian supermarkets, Syrian restaurants — just like back home," says Hassan, 26. "I haven't even applied for a Turkish ID card. If peace comes to Syria, I'll go home tomorrow." Nearby, a resident who describes herself as one of the last Turks living on this street near Istanbul's Fatih Mosque says she no longer recognizes her neighborhood. "Before, this area was only Turkish people, mostly. But now, here, there, everywhere, it's all Syrian people," says Tulay Suleyman, who was born here. "Some Turkish people, they don't like these [new] people. Their culture is a little bit different than ours. [They're] mostly ignorant people — homeless people, low-class." Xenophobia has flared with the arrival of migrants in parts of Europe.
343	8	Independence Day 2017: PM Modi reaches out to Kashmir from Red Fort, envisages vision for ‘New India’: Prime Minister Narendra Modi addressing the nation from the ramparts of Red Fort, New Delhi. Express Photo by Tashi Tobgyal Prime Minister Narendra Modi addressing the nation from the ramparts of Red Fort, New Delhi. Express Photo by Tashi Tobgyal In his fourth Independence Day address from the ramparts of Red Fort, Prime Minister Narendra Modi shared his vision of a ‘New India’ which will be free from the ‘poison of communalism, casteism, corruption and terrorism’. In this ‘New India’, Modi said, the people will be the new rulers. “We have to leave this ‘chalta hai‘ attitude. We have to think of ‘badal sakta hai‘ — this attitude will help us as a nation,” PM Modi said. In his 56-minute speech, the shortest Independence Day speech so far in his tenure, the prime minister also touched on sensitive issues such as Kashmir and triple talaq. He said the problems ailing Kashmir can only be resolved by embracing them, not through abuses or bullets. “Na goli se, na gaali se, Kashmir ki samasya suljhegi gale lagaane se,” PM Modi said. On triple talaq, PM Modi said that he admires the courage of women who have been suffering due to triple talaq.
256	9	U.N. calls on Gulf countries to do more to help Syrian refugees: Iraqi refugees who fled the violence in Mosul walk past tents near the Iraqi border, in Hasaka Governorate, Syria October 28, 2016. REUTERS/Rodi Said KUWAIT A senior United Nations refugee official on Sunday called on Gulf Arab states to give more to help Syrians displaced by six years of civil war, saying she saw little sign that the crisis would end any time soon. Speaking during a visit to Kuwait to sign a $10 million (8 million pound) aid agreement for Syrian refugees in Iraq, Kelly T. Clements, deputy commissioner for the United Nations High Commision for Refugees (UNHCR), also said the U. N. body lamented the "sad" fact that the number of refugees fleeing Syria's civil war had passed the 5 million mark. "For us at UNHCR, we don't celebrate these milestones. We in fact try not to bring a lot of attention to it because it is not a good story," Clements told Reuters. "It means basically that we haven't seen a political solution to make it possible for people to go home safely and in dignity and voluntarily. " Syrians have poured across their borders into Turkey, Lebanon, Jordan and Iraq since anti-government protests in 2011 descended into a full-blown conflict between rebels, Islamist militants, government troops and foreign backers.
364	3	Once Routine, ICE Check-Ins Now Fill Immigrants In U.S. Illegally With Anxiety: Florinda Lorenzo has been in the U. S. illegally for more than a decade but checks in with federal immigration agents in Baltimore several times a year. Until recently, it had become routine, almost like a trip to the dentist. Many immigrants — like Lorenzo — who are here illegally are not in hiding. Hundreds of thousands of them report to U. S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement on a regular basis. They've been allowed to stay because past administrations considered them a low priority for deportation. But with the Trump administration's crackdown on illegal immigration, that once-routine check-in has become a nerve-wracking experience. In recent weeks, some immigrants say they've been detained without warning at their ICE check-ins. "It creates a lot of chaos for me," Lorenzo says through an interpreter. "I know lots of people are getting deported now, and I wouldn't want to be deported. " Lorenzo came to the U. S. from Guatemala 14 years ago. She has three children, two of them U. S. citizens who were born here. Lorenzo was arrested in 2010 and charged with selling prepaid phone cards without a license. The charges were dropped, but she's been required to check in with ICE since then.
170	7	California aims to quash immigration detention growth: California is aiming to quash the growth of immigration detention in the state under a proposed budget measure to push back against the Trump administration's plans to boost deportations. The state's $125 billion budget — which is set to be approved Thursday — has a related measure to prevent local governments from signing contracts with federal authorities for immigration detention facilities or expanding existing contracts. It would also have the state attorney general review conditions at immigration detention facilities in California. "I think we send a very clear message in this budget that California is going in the opposite direction of Trump's administration," said Sen. Ricardo Lara, a Democrat. The budget was negotiated by Gov. Jerry Brown and Democratic legislative leaders. A message was left for the state Senate's Republican caucus. Immigration and Customs Enforcement declined to comment on pending legislation. The proposal is the latest in a series of moves by California lawmakers aimed at protecting immigrants in the country illegally from President Donald Trump's efforts to ramp up immigration enforcement. State lawmakers are also weighing proposals to provide lawyers for immigrants in deportation proceedings and limit communication between local police and federal immigration agents.
370	10	U.S. top court leaves intact ruling against Central America asylum seekers: The U. S. Supreme Court sidestepped a turbulent debate over illegal immigration on Monday, turning away an appeal by a group of asylum-seeking Central American women and their children who aimed to clarify the constitutional rights of people who the government has prioritized for deportation. The families, 28 women and 33 children ages 2 to 17 from El Salvador, Honduras and Guatemala, had hoped the justices would overturn a lower court's ruling preventing them from having their expedited removal orders reviewed by a federal judge. Start the conversation, or Read more at WHTC.
95	7	African migrant’s storm wire border fence trying to enter Spanish territory: Ceuta and Melilla are Spanish enclaves, sitting on the northern shores of Morocco's Mediterranean coast. They are the EU's only land borders with Africa. The Spanish government said all the African migrants except two, which tried to climb the border wall, were sent back to Morocco. More than 1,000 illegal African migrants tried to enter Spanish territory by scaling a 6 meters wire border fence on New Year's Day. Fifty Moroccan and five Spanish officers were injured as they clashed with armed men carrying metal bars and rocks trying to break through the gates to access the border fences of Ceuta and Melilla. Both cities are Spanish enclaves, sitting on the northern shores of Morocco's Mediterranean coast. They are the European Union's only land borders with Africa. On 1 January, the Spanish government said all the African migrants except two, which tried to climb the border wall, were sent back to Morocco. The two migrants which were allowed to enter Ceuta needed hospital treatment. Local TV station Faro TV showed footage of the migrants reaching the wire fence in the early hours of Sunday before being hoisted down by cranes. Apparently more than 400 migrants attempted to access the fence at Ceuta last month and each year hundreds of sub-Saharan illegal African migrants try to enter Ceuta and Melilla from Morocco.
51	7	Trump visiting Supreme Court as justices weigh travel ban: WASHINGTON — President Donald Trump is making his first Supreme Court visit at a moment of high legal drama. The justices are weighing what to do with the president's ban on travellers from six mostly Muslim countries. But the reason for his high court trip Thursday is purely ceremonial, to mark Justice Neil Gorsuch's ascension to the bench. Trump has no role in the courtroom ceremony, but presidents often make the trip to the court from the White House to honour their nominees. While the dispute over the travel ban and other controversies have simmered during Trump's first few months in office, his choice of the 49-year-old Gorsuch for the Supreme Court won widespread praise in the legal community as well as unanimous Republican support in the Senate. A federal judge first blocked Trump's initial travel ban in early February. The president issued a revised version in March. It never took effect after judges in Maryland and Hawaii put it on hold. Two federal appeals courts have since upheld those lower court orders. The Trump administration has asked the Supreme Court to allow the ban to take effect immediately. Gorsuch actually has been a member of the high court since April, and he even issued his first opinion on Monday.
328	8	Lebanon crisis overshadows EU aid for Syrian refugees: Perched on the side of a mountain some 50km from the Syrian border, St John's monastery in Lebanon is home to around a dozen hermits and priests. A printing press that published books in Arabic, the world's first, can still be found within its halls. The classes provided by the NGOs helps create social networks (Photo: Arie Kievit) Today, the monastery has become an educational refuge for Syrian children hoping for a future that was removed from them when the regime under Bashar al-Assad indiscriminately dropped barrel bombs on his own people. In one class of around a dozen children, a 10-year old girl calls out the letters of the alphabet in French. Some have never attended school before. Learning French is among many obstacles they face in an effort to insert them into a wider Lebanese public school system where they'll be segregated and most likely bullied. "One of the main reasons why [Syrian refugee] children are out of school in Lebanon is language," said Poppy Alice Hardee, an area manager for the NGO, Terre des Hommes Italia. Public schools in Lebanon are taught in English and in French, depending on the area, which puts Syrians at an immediate disadvantage.
284	4	Andy Burnham under fire for saying buying coffee is 'posh' as he criticises 'barista visas': Many have mocked Andy Burnham for saying that buying coffee from a cafe is "posh" after he criticised the idea of barista visas, which would allow immigrants to come over for a fixed amount of time to work in our coffee shops. He wrote: "Bit bizarre hearing these right-wing calls for a 'Barista Visa'. God forbid the idea of waiting longer in the morning for their posh coffee. " People, including a barista who claims to have served him in Manchester, have rubbished the claims that buying a coffee from a chain is a posh or right-wing thing to do. It has also been pointed out that Mr Burnham is partial to a posh coffee, and has been pictured with one.
428	5	21,000 Undocumented Immigrants Arrested in First Weeks of Trump Presidency, Including 5,400 Non-Criminals: The number of undocumented immigrant arrests rose by roughly one-third in the first weeks of the Trump administration, largely driven by an increase in the number of non-criminals arrested. Immigrations and Customs Enforcement removal authorities made 21,362 arrests from January 20 to March 13 of this year, including 5,441 non-criminals, according to statistics provided to CNN and first requested by The Washington Post. While the arrests by ICE under President Donald Trump in the first seven weeks of his administration still lag behind the number arrested under former President Barack Obama in the same timeframe in 2014, the pace of arrests this year do mark an escalation compared to the last two years of the Obama administration, when the Democrat used greater discretion toward undocumented immigrants. The increase in arrests — including more than double the number of non-criminal indviduals — stands as further evidence of the Trump administration’s priority of enforcing immigration laws more aggressively than the previous administration and giving immigration officials greater authority to go after a wide range of undocumented immigrants. The more than 21,000 arrested in the beginning of this year is a roughly 33% increase over the same period in 2016 and a roughly 18% increase over the same period in 2015.
464	7	Feeling what it's like to cross the US border: Video The US southern border and the people crossing it have become the subject of global headlines. A new art installation by Oscar-winning Mexican director Alejandro González Iñárritu gives people the opportunity to see and feel what it's like to cross the desert at night. Filmed and produced by Bill McKenna and Felicia Barr. Music by Gene D'Andrea. Footage provided by Legendary Films. Photos by Emmanuel Lubezki, Chachi Ramirez, Agatha Bacelar/Emerson Collective, with special thanks to The Emerson Collective, The Phillips Collection and Atlas Performing Arts Center.
235	7	Hawaii files motion seeking to challenge third travel ban: HONOLULU — Lawyers representing Hawaii in the state's long-running fight against Trump administration travel bans have filed a motion asking a judge to let them challenge the latest version of the policy. Hawaii filed the motion Friday asking a federal judge for permission to file an amended lawsuit targeting the third travel ban. The latest travel ban removes Sudan from the list of affected countries and adds Chad and North Korea, along with several officials from the government of Venezuela. It's scheduled to take effect Oct. 18. State Attorney General Doug Chin said the new ban still discriminates on the basis of nationality, exceeds the president's legal authority and seeks to implement his Muslim ban.
346	10	UN report: Migrants sending billions more home than in 2007: A new U. N. report says migrants are sending home billions of dollars more than they did a decade ago which is helping lift their families out of poverty — and it says the rate of growth in remittances is almost double the increase in migration. The report commissioned by the International Fund for Agricultural Development and released Wednesday says that over the period from 2007 to 2016 remittances increased by 51 per cent while migration rose by 28 per cent and population in the home countries of migrants grew by 13 per cent .
176	6	Chicago 'sanctuary church' shelters immigrants, endures hate speech: Chicago (CNN) Jessica has lived in the United States for almost 18 years. Her husband and their four children are American citizens. And she is terrified of being ripped away from her family and sent back to Mexico, a country that is no longer her home. "I wake up at night and I can't sleep just thinking about it," the 50-year-old woman told CNN, holding back tears. (Jessica is not her real name; because of her fears of being deported, CNN is not revealing her identity. ) Jessica crossed the border in 1999 and made it all the way to Chicago, where she built a family and a new life. But she's never gotten her green card. And now, like many immigrants in the new, border-tightening era of President Donald Trump, she is facing an uncertain future. Mostly, she worries about her youngest children, ages 15 to 21. "It's tough to think I'd be leaving them behind," she said, her voice breaking. "If I get deported, what's going to be of them? " Prayer is Jessica's only solace. That, and the church she attends in her largely Mexican-American neighborhood on Chicago's lower west side.
119	5	South Africa: Refugees Struggle to Renew Papers At Home Affairs: Asylum seekers from Somalia face unexplained delays and shabby treatment at the foreshore office A number of refugees from Somalia say they keep getting turned away at the Customs House foreshore offices of Home Affairs when trying to renew their documents. This after they had travelled all the way from Pretoria, since Home Affairs only allows people to renew their documents at the place they first applied for refugee status in South Africa. Last week, GroundUp met Abdullahi Mumin and a group of Somalis outside the Home Affairs offices. Mumin received refugee status in 2007 and renews every four years. He said this time it was their fourth visit in a month, trying to renew his documents. He had been to the offices on 1 May, told to return on 25 May, which he did, only to be told to return on 1 June, only to be told yet again to return on 9 June. On 9 June, he was told to return on 13 June. Each time officials would scribble the return date on the permit. Mumin now plans to engage a lawyer. Mumin has a shop to run in Pretoria and the trips to Cape Town cost him business.
283	6	Malcolm Turnbull Facebook slammed for scrapping 457 visas: Malcolm Turnbull has been slammed on social media for scrapping 457 visas for skilled foreign workers with critics accusing him of racism and ignorance. More than 2,300 comments flooded the Prime Minister's Facebook page on Tuesday, with many of them negative. The Liberal leader was panned for abolishing a policy introduced by John Howard's government in 1996, which allowed overseas workers to stay in Australia for up to four years. Scroll down for video More than 2,300 comments flooded the PM's Facebook page after his 457 visa announcement Former 7News reporter Eammon Atkinson accused Malcolm Turnbull of milking xenophobia This woman accused the prime minister of seeking to bring back the White Australia policy Eammon Atkinson, a former 7News reporter in Brisbane now based in London, said the Australian Government was bowing to xenophobic tendencies. 'You're an absolute idiot pandering to racist Australia,' he said. 'What an embarrassment. ' Kit Mhairi went further and accused the prime minister of trying to bring back the White Australia policy, which operated from 1901 to 1973. 'Ugh, just call a spade a spade, you racist. New 457 for people with 'better English'? Just be honest and say this is the White Australia Policy 2.
491	8	Trump Has Promised to Build More Ships. He May Deport the Workers Who Help Make Them: Early last year, President-elect Donald Trump promised that when he got back into the Oval Office, he’d authorize the U.S. Navy to build more ships. “It’s very important,” he said, “because it’s jobs, great jobs.” However, the companies that build ships for the government are already having trouble finding enough workers to fill those jobs.
495	6	Held for Ransom in Animal Pens, Migrants Face Mass Kidnappings as U.S. and Mexico Ramp Up Enforcement: TAPACHULA, Mexico — It was Jan. 17 when Nevy de Zelada, a migrant from Guatemala, and her family were walking on the edge of a four-lane highway in southern Mexico in blistering, 100-degree heat. It was the first leg of their journey to the United States, where they hoped to seek asylum. Her 21-year-old son was pushing her paraplegic husband in his manual wheelchair, and the family’s beloved dog was nestled on her husband’s lap.
113	8	Seattle ‘Dreamer’ sues over his detention under Trump’s immigration actions: Immigrants and civil-rights attorneys have filed a petition in federal court in Seattle seeking the release of a 23-year-old Mexican immigrant brought illegally into the U. S. as a child but given a work permit under the Obama Administration. Immigrants and civil-rights attorneys have filed a petition in federal court in Seattle seeking the release of a 23-year-old Mexican immigrant brought illegally into the U. S. as a child but given a work permit under the Obama Administration. The petition challenges the immigration detention and seeks the release of Daniel Ramirez Medina, who his attorneys say was detained by Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) agents on Friday. The agents were conducting an action at his father’s house, and Medina was detained, according to the news service Reuters and a news release by the attorneys in his case. ICE countered in a statement Tuesday that Medina — whom they identify as “Mr. Ramirez” — was a “self-admitted gang member” encountered during the arrest of a felon previously deported. He is in custody at the Northwest Detention Center in Tacoma “to await the outcome of removal proceedings,” said ICE Northwest spokeswoman Rose Richeson. “ICE officers took Mr.
270	5	Jordan commander: Islamic State expands hold in border camp for Syrians: Jordanian soldiers stand at the north eastern border with Syria, close to the informal Rukban camp. The commander of Jordan's border guards says Islamic State militants are expanding their influence in the sprawling border camp for tens of thousands of displaced Syrians. JORDAN-SYRIA BORDER — The commander of Jordan's border guards says Islamic State extremists are expanding their influence in a sprawling border camp for displaced Syrians, posing a growing threat to the U. S. -allied kingdom. Brig. Gen. Sami Kafawin spoke during a tour of the desert area where Jordan, Syria and Iraq meet. A ride in a military helicopter offered a view of the Rukban camp, an expanse of makeshift shelters housing tens of thousands of Syrians. Conditions in the camp deteriorated sharply after Jordan sealed its border in June, following a cross-border IS attack that killed seven Jordanian border guards. Kafawin said on Tuesday that "the (militant) threat is increasing, especially in this area. " He says that nonetheless, Jordan tries to ensure the displaced Syrians get food and medical treatment.
481	3	Navarrette: 3 immigration ‘solutions’: half-baked, hateful and hideous - and this new one: SAN DIEGO — No matter which political party they hail from, immigration “solutions” usually come in three varieties: half-baked, hateful and hideous. You’ll find all of the above as Americans from across the fruited plain refuse to let their ignorance about the issue stop them from putting in their 2 cents about how to solve the crisis at hand: wanton separation of families at the U.S.-Mexico border. People also have lots to say about the bigger issue — how to secure the border, legalize the undocumented, provide a workforce to do jobs that Americans think are beneath them, etc. Everyone is an engineer, convinced that their plan is best. A reader asked: “What are your ideas regarding this issue?” Another demanded to know: “TALK IS CHEAP, doesn’t cost a [expletive] thing. What is your fix to ILLEGAL immigration?” Another said: “I would find it helpful to read your thoughts on how to handle the situation at our border.” Get editorials, opinion columns, letters to the editor and more in your inbox weekday mornings. Sign up for the Opinion newsletter. I am often asked for my own solution, and I hate it. While it’s true that my vision is clearer than most because I’m not beholden to either political party, my ideas are no more valuable than anyone else’s.
371	5	Border agents 'floored' when K9 finds 68 pounds of pot in car fl - 3TV: Thanks to the top-notch nose of a border patrol K9, agents were able to uncover 68 pounds of pot being smuggled into the U. S. The marijuana was hidden under the floorboards of a car. Agents near Tucson stopped the driver after a Border Patrol canine alerted to an odor it was trained to detect. During the search of the car, agents discovered a non-factory compartment in the vehicle’s floorboards, containing more than 60 bricks of marijuana. The driver, a male 20-year-old U. S. citizen, was arrested and charged with smuggling a controlled substance. The marijuana was worth close to $55,000. Click/tap here to download the free azfamily mobile app. Copyright 2017 KPHO/KTVK (KPHO Broadcasting Corporation). All rights reserved.
216	8	Third US judge orders Daca restarted, saying new applicants must be accepted: Judge John Bates is first to order Trump administration to accept new applications as young undocumented Dreamers await their fate Third US judge orders Daca restarted, saying new applicants must be accepted A third federal judge has ordered the Trump administration to restart a program that shields young undocumented immigrants known as “Dreamers” from deportation and, in a first, to accept new applicants to the program. Writing that the decision to end the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (Daca) program was “virtually unexplained”, the US district judge John Bates said on Tuesday he would stay the order for 90 days to allow the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) an opportunity to “better explain” its decision. “DACA’s rescission was arbitrary and capricious because the Department failed adequately to explain its conclusion that the program was unlawful,” Bates wrote in his 60-page ruling, released on Tuesday evening. Trump's Daca deadline arrives – what happens next? Read more Two district court judges, in San Francisco and Brooklyn, previously ordered the Trump administration to spare Daca. Bates, however, went a step further and ordered that the administration accept new applications while litigation continues. The first injunction came several weeks before 5 March, a deadline set by the Trump administration to end the program.
110	8	Waiting Game, through the steps of asylum seekers: Apr 24, 2018 Sisi Wei for ProPublica and Nick Fortugno of Playmatics made a game to provide a feeling of what it’s like for someone who needs escape from their home. Based on the real case files of five asylum seekers from five countries and interviews with the medical and legal professionals who evaluate and represent them, The Waiting Game is an experimental news game that lets you walk in the shoes of an asylum seeker, from the moment they choose to come to the United States to the final decision in the cases before an immigration judge. Take your time with this one, and use your headphones. In the game format, I felt more engrossed in the individual stories than I think if it were a linear profile story.
351	9	African migrants injured in Italian drive-by shootings: police: ROME (Reuters) - An Italian man opened fire on African migrants in the central city of Macerata on Saturday, injuring several people, police said, in an attack that appeared to be racially motivated. The shootings happened just days after a Nigerian migrant was arrested in connection with the death of an 18-year-old Italian woman, whose dismembered body was discovered hidden in two suitcases near Macerata. The incident looks certain to jolt campaigning for a March 4 national election, with a center-right alliance that leads in the polls promoting a fiercely anti-migrant program. Local media reported that at least six migrants were shot by a man firing out of a car window as he drove around Macerata, which is located about 200 km (125 miles) east of Rome. Police later said they had arrested an Italian man and published a photo of him, with an Italian flag draped over his shoulders, being taken away by armed officers. State television Rai said he was a 28-year-old from Macerata and that a pistol had been discovered in his Alfa Romeo car. Police said one of the injured foreigners needed surgery, but gave no further details.
4	8	Why These Students Are Living With Immigrant Families For A Week: A program in Minnesota is offering American high school students the chance to live for a week with local immigrant families, to help counter misconceptions and create connections between U. S. -born and immigrant communities. The nonprofit City Stay connects students from three private high schools in the Twin Cities with local Latino, Somali and Hmong host families ― representing the three largest immigrant communities in the state. “We live in bubbles, largely interacting with people who look the way we do, dress the way we do, and that leads to mistrust and misconceptions,” founder Julie Knopp told The Huffington Post. “At the end of the day, it’s just about getting to know your neighbors. ” As part of the elective program, for which students pay a fee, the teens participate in the family lives of their hosts over the weekend and after school ― everything from cooking meals to running errands to playing sports. During the week, they join in school lessons and activities facilitated by City Stay, including learning about immigrant communities from members of those communities. They also share with each other what they’ve learned from their time staying with a host family.
332	10	Germany takes 10,000 refugees from UN resettlement program: Photo: Michael Sohn, AP Image 1 of / 9 Caption Close Image 1 of 9 Filippo Grandi, left, UN High Commissioner for Refugees, gestures during a joint statement with German Chancellor Angela Merkel, right, prior to a meeting in Berlin, Germany, Monday, April 23, 2018. Filippo Grandi, left, UN High Commissioner for Refugees, gestures during a joint statement with German Chancellor Angela Merkel, right, prior to a meeting in Berlin, Germany, Monday, April 23, 2018. Photo: Michael Sohn, AP Image 2 of 9 German Chancellor Angela Merkel attends a joint statement with Filippo Grandi, UN High Commissioner for Refugees, prior to a meeting in Berlin, Germany, Monday, April 23, 2018. German Chancellor Angela Merkel attends a joint statement with Filippo Grandi, UN High Commissioner for Refugees, prior to a meeting in Berlin, Germany, Monday, April 23, 2018. Photo: Michael Sohn, AP Image 3 of 9 Filippo Grandi, left, UN High Commissioner for Refugees, and German Chancellor Angela Merkel, right, arrive for a statement prior to a meeting in Berlin, Germany, Monday, April 23, 2018. Filippo Grandi, left, UN High Commissioner for Refugees, and German Chancellor Angela Merkel, right, arrive for a statement prior to a meeting in Berlin, Germany, Monday, April 23, 2018.
15	7	US arrests Mexican immigrant 'dreamer' in Seattle: SEATTLE (AP) — A man who was brought to the U.S. illegally as a child but was protected from deportation by the Obama administration has been taken into custody in the Seattle area in what could be the first case of its kind in the country. Northwest Immigrants Rights Project Legal Director Matt Adams told The Associated Press Tuesday that 23-year-old Daniel Ramirez Medina was arrested Friday by U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents. Adams says he believes the young man was apprehended by mistake. Adams says agents were at the Seattle home to arrest the man's father and that they took both men into custody. Ramirez Medina has a work permit under Obama's Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program. He's being held in Tacoma. Adams says the man is the first person he knows of with DACA status who has been detained.
461	5	Court overturns ruling: Allowed immigrant to stay in Kan. after conviction: BARTON COUNTY -The Kansas Court of Appeals reversed a district court judge’s decision to set aside the identity theft conviction of a woman who moved to Kansas from Mexico in 2003 without proper documentation to join her husband, according to court documents. Following a jury trial, Melissa Valles was convicted of illegally using the social security number of a Colorado resident to obtain employment at several Great Bend businesses, according to a media release from the court. However, the judge who heard the case granted a motion to arrest judgement, essentially ruling that the court did not have jurisdiction over the case. The Barton County Attorney’s Office appealed that decision, and the Court of Appeals agreed that the trial judge was incorrect in his decision. Arguing the State’s case to the three-judge panel on the Court of Appeals, then-County Attorney Doug Matthews contended that a change in the law allowed the case to continue even though the language used in the complaint to charge Valles was technically incorrect. The judges on the Court agreed, holding that the complaint was sufficient since it alleged facts that, if proven beyond a reasonable doubt, would show that Valles had committed a crime in Kansas.
52	7	2 wrongfully convicted Mexican immigrants face uncertain future: CHICAGO — Freedom was short-lived for two Mexican immigrants recently released after nearly 20 years in an Illinois prison when a judge ruled their confessions in a gruesome double-murder case were likely coerced. Gabriel Solache has been detailed after being released from prison Friday, and Arturo DeLeon-Reyes, who was freed in December, also is in detention. This time they’re awaiting deportation proceedings from Immigration and Customs Enforcement because they entered the country illegally. They are among several defendants who have walked free because their cases were handled by Reynaldo Guevara, a discredited former Chicago detective facing allegations that for years he beat and bullied defendants to obtain false confessions. DeLeon-Reyes’ attorney said he’s not sure he even made it past the fence outside the jail. “But I do know he did see the sun shine without handcuffs on and could see a park and all of those were a first for him in a really long time,” said Andrew Vail, a Jenner and Block attorney who worked on the case for free. DeLeon-Reyes and Solache’s release adds a chapter to what has become one of the most troubling stories of the Chicago Police Department in recent history.
117	8	Nigerian LGBTQ Activist Granted Asylum in UK After 13-Year Legal Battle: LONDON - A Nigerian LGBTQ activist was granted asylum in Britain after a 13-year legal battle to prove her sexual orientation, a drawn-out process that rights groups called a "miscarriage of justice." Aderonke Apata, 50, who was given asylum last Thursday, had been trying to remain in Britain for more than a decade, but her case was refused several times after a judge ruled she was pretending to be a lesbian. "I'm extremely overwhelmed with joy and gladness to know that now I'm safe and can live freely as a human being," Apata said in a statement on her Facebook page. "As you rejoice with me for being safe, kindly remember that there are many people still in the same position that I was in for over 13 years," said Apata, who founded African LGBTQ charity African Rainbow Family. Kenyan gay and lesbian organizations demonstrate outside the Nigerian High Commission in Nairobi on February 7, 2014. Simon Maina / AFP/Getty Images African countries have some of the most prohibitive laws against homosexuality in the world: Same-sex relationships are a crime across much of the continent and can lead to imprisonment or the death penalty.
136	7	Russian Muslims Could Open School for Syrian Refugees in Lebanon - Moscow Mufti: BEIRUT (Sputnik) — Earlier in the month, the Spiritual Board of Muslims of Russia along with the Spiritual Board of Muslims of Moscow and the Russian Mufties Council sent a humanitarian cargoes for the Syrian refugees living in camps near the Syrian-Lebanese border. "As I see, there are huge problems with medical assistance and education and there are very many orphans. We will contribute to the [solution of problems] in these three spheres. Maybe we will help to open a school. We would like to set ourselves this task for this year," Alyautdinov, who is also the Deputy Chairman of the Russian Muftis Council, said. © AFP 2016/ ARIS MESSINIS Turkey Provides Schooling to Over 480,000 Syrian Refugee Children - Education Minister He added that the council had also set a task to support at least 100 Syrian children. According to the mufti, Russian Muslims are planning to carry out such humanitarian actions on a regular basis. The ongoing Syrian civil war has resulted in a large-scale humanitarian crisis in the region and made millions of Syrians to leave their homeland. According to the Office of the UN High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), there are more than 1 million of refugees from the crisis-torn country in Lebanon at the moment.
356	9	Prosecutors Weigh Whether to Retry Border Patrol Agent in Killing of Mexican Teenager: Federal prosecutors are weighing whether to retry a U. S. Border Patrol agent accused of shooting to death an unarmed Mexican teenager in a cross-border incident more than five years ago. A federal jury in Tucson, Ariz. , on Monday acquitted Border Patrol Agent Lonnie Swartz of second-degree murder and deadlocked on lesser manslaughter charges. The.
1	5	Second refugee family leaves small Newfoundland town that sponsored them: LEWISPORTE, N. L. - Like so many other Canadians, Stephanie McClellan felt called to act when she saw the image of three-year-old Syrian refugee Alan Kurdi’s body wash ashore in Turkey in 2015. Through Facebook posts and word of mouth, McClellan connected with other like-minded people in the little town of Lewisporte, N. L. , to form the Lewisporte Refugee Outreach Committee. The town of 3,400 fundraised and got organized to sponsor one family from Iraq and one from Syria through the blended visa office-referred program. Last month, the committee officially disbanded as the town said goodbye to the second of the two families who had become part of the community over the last few years. Both families have moved to Windsor, Ont. , in search of better job security, proximity to family and friends, and a larger community of Arabic speakers. McClellan says she’s happy for her friends’ next chapter, but will miss having them downstairs in her home’s basement apartment. “It will be different,” said McClellan. “I’ll miss just being able to go have a coffee and visit, and have the kids come up and play games for an evening, or go out to the park, things like that.
392	6	Deported Arizona mom's lawyer: Trump order 'declaration of war' on immigrants: Story highlights Lawyer warns it could be "biggest mass deportation" in history of US Garcia de Rayos' husband says their children are heartbroken (CNN) The lawyer for an Arizona woman who was deported last week says President Donald Trump's recent executive orders are "a declaration of war" on the immigrant community. Guadalupe Garcia de Rayos was deported to Mexico Thursday following a routine check-in with a US Immigration and Customs Enforcement office in Phoenix. She was required to check in yearly after being convicted in 2009 of using a false Social Security number and had done so with no repercussions until now. "This is a declaration of war, these executive orders, are a declaration of war on the immigrant community," Ray Maldonado, Garcia de Rayos' attorney, told CNN's Alisyn Camerota on "New Day" Monday. "Our community could possibly be facing one of the biggest mass deportations in the history of the United States, if President Trump follows through on what he's written in his executive orders. " JUST WATCHED Deported mother leaves behind family in US Replay More Videos .
199	4	Border Patrol Seizes Meth Found in Vehicle's Gas Tank - Palm Springs News, Weather, Traffic, Breaking News: El Centro Sector Border Patrol agents assigned to the Highway 86 checkpoint, arrested a man suspected of smuggling methamphetamine inside his vehicle’s gas tank on Saturday morning. The incident occurred at approximately 9:15 a. m. , when a 26-year-old man approached the checkpoint in a 2012 Hyundai Accent. Before the driver reached the primary inspection area, a Border Patrol canine detection team alerted to the driver’s side of the vehicle. Story: Border Patrol Agents Arrest Convicted Sex Offender in Calexico Agents referred the man to secondary inspection for a closer inspection of the vehicle. Story: Border Patrol Discovers Meth in Pickup’s Gas Tank Upon further inspection, Border Patrol agents found 24 packages stuffed inside the vehicle’s gas tank. Agents tested the contents of the packages. That test indicated a positive for characteristics of methamphetamine. Story: Border Patrol Arrests Man with Sexual Assault Warrant The total weight of the methamphetamine was 26. 41 pounds with an estimated street value of $92,435. Gas tanks are a common hiding place drug traffickers use to smuggle their narcotics. The man, a United States citizen, the vehicle and narcotics were turned-over to the Drug Enforcement Administration for further investigation.
427	7	Number of non-criminal undocumented immigrants arrested under Donald Trump more than doubles: The number of immigrants with no criminal records arrested has more than doubled under President Donald Trump. Immigrations and Customs Enforcement made 21,362 arrests from January to mid-March, representing a rise of roughly one-third compared to 16,104 during the same period last year, The Washington Post reported. The number of non-criminals arrested doubled to 5,441, suggesting Mr Trump's administration is enforcing immigration laws more aggressively than the previous administration. "As [Homeland Security] Secretary [John F] Kelly has made clear, ICE will no longer exempt classes or categories of removable aliens from potential enforcement," ICE spokeswoman Jennifer Elzea said in a statement. Audible groans as Trump announces agency solely to report immigrant crime Mr Trump previously issued executive orders putting all undocumented immigrants at risk of deportation, but told CBS News' 60 Minutes he would focus on criminals before deciding what to do with undocumented immigrants, who he described as "terrific people". He has also previously suggested he would publish a weekly list of crimes committed by immigrants. The controversial orders Donald Trump has already issued 8 show all The controversial orders Donald Trump has already issued 1/8 Trump and the media White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer takes questions during the daily press briefing Getty Images 2/8 Trump and the Trans-Pacific Partnership Union leaders applaud US President Donald Trump for signing an executive order withdrawing the US from the Trans-Pacific Partnership negotiations during a meeting in the Roosevelt Room of the White House in Washington DC Getty 3/8 Trump and the Mexico wall People protest against US President Donald Trump's inauguration next to a fake wall with a Mexican national flag and a dummy representing him in Mexico City Getty Images 4/8 Trump and the Mexico wall A US Border Patrol vehicle sits waiting for illegal immigrants at a fence opening near the US-Mexico border near McAllen, Texas.
457	8	Trump, Dems at odds over immigrants, border wall in budget battle: Trump, Dems at odds over immigrants, border wall in budget battle WASHINGTON (AP) – President Donald Trump and top congressional Democrats remain shy of an agreement to put language into a government spending bill to protect many young immigrants from deportation. A White House official and a Senate Democratic aide say the White House has offered a two-and-a-half-year extension of President Barack Obama’s Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, or DACA. In exchange, the White House wants $25 billion for Trump’s proposed border wall with Mexico and other security measures. Democrats say for that amount, DACA recipients and people who might qualify for the program must get more: a chance at citizenship. DACA lets immigrants brought to the U. S. illegally as children stay temporarily and get jobs. Trump halted the program last fall. The aides spoke on condition of anonymity to disclose private talks.
249	6	Trump admin pushes Congress to fix immigration 'loopholes': In this May 28, 2018, photo, President Donald Trump speaks during a Memorial Day ceremony at Arlington National Cemetery in Arlington, Va. Trump on Tuesday seized on an error by liberal activists who tweeted photos of young-looking immigrants at the U. S. -Mexico border in steel cages and blamed the current administration for separating immigrant children from their parents. The photos were taken by The Associated Press in 2014, when President Barack Obama was in office. The photo captions reference children who crossed the border as unaccompanied minors.
48	4	France Needs to Better Protect Maritime Borders Amid Migrant Inflow: MOSCOW (Sputnik) — According to the National Front member, the current socialist government has weakened the maritime border security, so faster delivery of new vessels is needed, as well as the deployment of new drones and planes. "This situation is unbearable on an enormous territory of 11 million of square kilometers [approximately 4. 2 million square miles] and filled with considerable resources: the number of breaches is growing, the drug trafficking is flourishing, and illegal immigration is speeding up. The sovereignty of France has to be reaffirmed urgently! " Philippot said in a statement. Philippot also stressed the importance of increasing the country's defense budget. In December 2016, Chief of Staff of the French Armed Forces Gen. Pierre de Villiers urged French government to increase military spending to the 2 percent of GDP, as required by NATO. French President Francois Hollande said later in December that France had the necessary resources to boost its military expenditure. According to NATO July 2016 figures, France was spending 1. 78 percent of its GDP on defense.
403	7	Migrants accused of being part of Syrian militant group go on trial in Germany: Defendants Kamel T. H. J. (R) and Azad R. talk to their lawyers Martina Walter (2nd R) and Armin Beck as they arrive in a courtroom in Munich, southern Germany, March 30, 2017. REUTERS/Michael Dalder Defendant Azad R. shakes hands with his lawyer Armin Beck as he arrives in a courtroom in Munich, southern Germany, March 30, 2017. REUTERS/Michael Dalder MUNICH Two Syrian migrants who came to Germany as part of an influx of refugees in the summer of 2015 went on trial in Munich on Thursday accused of fighting in Syria as part of a militant group. More than 1 million migrants have arrived in Germany over the past two years and concerns about security and integration are widespread. Barbara Stockinger, a judge and spokeswoman for Munich's higher regional court, said 22-year-old Azad R. and 24-year-old Kamel T. H. J. were accused of fighting near Aleppo as part of the Islamist rebel group Ahrar al-Sham between August 2013 and April 2014. "They armed themselves with kalashnikovs and fought against other rebel groups and the Syrian military government," she said. Stockinger said one of the men was injured during combat and headed to Turkey for medical treatment along with the other defendant.
194	7	Immigration Activists Gather Outside ICE HQ After Man, Woman Are Taken Into Custody: Dozens of immigration activists converged on ICE headquarters in Philadelphia after two people were taken into custody. The unidentified man and woman were taken by officials to Philadelphia’s ICE headquarters at 16th and Callowhill streets Tuesday. Members of the New Sanctuary Movement of Philadelphia, an interfaith immigrant justice organization, alerted local activists who gathered outside the building for a demonstration. NBC10 reached out to ICE officials for a statement on the detainment. A spokesperson for ICE said the incident was “business as usual” and there wasn't an uptick in local detainments. The spokesperson did not reveal the identities of the two people nor why they were taken into custody. Mayor Jim Kenney retweeted a message from the city stating they were working to find out how many people were impacted by increased ICE enforcements.
241	0	Mexican immigrant 'dreamer' in Seattle sues US over arrest: 0:49 White House is 'keeping a close eye' on crisis at California's Oroville dam Pause 1:32 Press Secretary says press should focus more on leaks than Flynn's resignation 2:23 One arrest as protesters block DeVos from D. C. middle school 2:19 Warren: Shocked to find 'truth was out of order' on the Senate floor 1:26 Who's at the door?
389	1	Moria refugee camp is no place for people: Spring warms our hearts and our bodies. Moria, the refugee camp on Lesbos where I lived when I arrived in Europe, however, is cold and prison-like. The tents did not provide cover from the harsh winter wind or the freezing rain. Lesbos is a beautiful Greek island, but the camp is hell. I invite all European politicians to visit us, to witness our hardship and our hunger; to see what it feels like when your fate is in the hands of others. But you will also see that this situation can change: more humane migration policies can help us, they can give people here the protection and support they need and deserve. My story is similar to those of millions of other refugees from Syria and other countries. Conflict and persecution has torn our families apart, we had to leave our belongings behind, and our beautiful cities are no longer recognisable. We fled to survive and when we reached safety we were stopped and told to wait in inhumane conditions. That waiting has become living. I have been in Lesbos for seven months now, and there is only one thing I can be certain of: I will be stuck here for a long time.
253	7	Migrant Clashes in French City Lead to More Police, and Fears of More Violence: It remained unclear on Friday how the brawl started, but the police were searching for a 37-year-old Afghan suspected of having fired first at a group of Eritreans, according to news reports. “We stopped everything, the police came quickly, and everyone got scattered amid tear gas,” said François Guennoc of the Migrants’ Hostel charity, describing how more than 100 migrants from Africa, armed with iron rods and sticks, had tried to beat a group of 20 Afghans during a food distribution. Human rights workers said that tensions have increased as migrants have seen their chances of reaching Britain from Calais whittled by a tougher stance by the French and British governments. In mid-January, Prime Minister Theresa May of Britain agreed during a meeting with France’s president, Emmanuel Macron, that the British government would pay an additional $62 million to step up security measures around Calais. Yet, organizations say, at least 200 more migrants, mostly young men from Eritrea, have reached Calais since that meeting, where Mr. Macron and Ms. May announced an accord that aimed to reduce the time unaccompanied minors spent there. “They mistakenly thought that they could reach Britain more easily,” Mr.
60	3	The Latest: Immigrant freed from detention sees targeting: NEW YORK (AP) — The Latest on Ravi Ragbir, an immigrant activist facing deportation who was ordered freed from detention (all times local): 12:15 p.m. An immigrant activist freed from detention by a judge's order says immigration officials are engaging in "psychological warfare" by targeting him and other activists for detention and deportation. Ravi Ragbir (RAH'-vee RAHG'-beer) says U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement is trying to send a message to the immigrant community by taking high-profile activists into custody. ICE refutes that contention and says it doesn't target anyone "based on advocacy positions they hold or in retaliation for critical comments they make." Ragbir was released from detention in New York on Monday following a judge's ruling. He had been detained since mid-January and has been fighting deportation. He's trying to attend the State of the Union address in Washington on Tuesday, where immigration will almost certainly come up. 12:02 a.m. A federal judge who ordered a detained immigration rights activist facing deportation to be immediately released is raising "grave concern" over the argument that he had been targeted because of his political activities. U.S. District Judge Katherine B. Forrest ruled that Ravi Ragbir be freed after a hearing on Monday in Manhattan federal court.
130	8	EU: Migrant deaths in central Mediterranean rise despite aid: BRUSSELS (AP) — The chief of the European border and coast guard agency says migrant deaths in the Mediterranean on the Libya-to-Italy smuggling route have increased to a record level despite ever more rescue vessels trying to prevent mass drownings. Frontex Executive Director Fabrice Leggeri said Wednesday "we face a kind of sad paradox" that as the international community increases efforts to send more rescue ships close to Libya, smuggling rings pack ever more people onto unseaworthy boats and push them out toward the open sea. He said the recorded number of migrant drowning deaths in 2016 — 4,579 — might be much less than the true loss of life. He says this "is tragic and the reasons are well known: the number of migrants now (arriving) on very small dinghies."