242	6	White House, Dems restart negotiations over DACA, funding border wall: The White House and congressional Democrats traded proposals over the weekend about how to fix an Obama-era program protecting hundreds of thousands of immigrants brought to the U. S. illegally as children from deportation, Fox News has learned. A source familiar with the talks said discussions broke down after Democrats rejected a bid by the Trump administration to extend protections for those enrolled in the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program until the fall of 2020. In exchange, the White House would receive $25 billion in funding for President Trump's long-sought wall along the U. S. -Mexico border. The Democrats countered with an offer to provide funding for the wall in exchange for a pathway to citizenship for all 1. 8 million DACA-eligible immigrants -- as opposed to the estimated 800,000 who are enrolled in the program. At that point, the source told Fox News the talks broke down. The immigration talks were part of larger negotiations on a $1. 3 trillion catchall spending bill, which would have to pass Congress by midnight Friday to avert another government shutdown. Trump ended the DACA program in September of last year, but a court decision has essentially left it in place, for now.
449	8	"Statue of Liberty closed after immigration protest banner, climber: Thousands of US protesters rally against Trump's immigration crackdown Liberty Island has been evacuated because of a climber at the Statue of Liberty. A person climbed the statue's base on the Fourth of July shortly after several people were arrested after hanging a banner from the statue's pedestal calling for abolishing Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE). News helicopter video showed the climber sitting Wednesday by the bottom of the statue's robes, about 100 feet (30 meters) above ground. Police nearby tried to persuade the climber to descend. Earlier, National Park Service spokesman Jerry Willis said at least six people were taken into custody for the banner, which read ""Abolish I. C. E. ,"" referring to part of the Department of Homeland Security. Willis says federal regulations prohibit hanging banners from the monument. Banner organizing group Rise and Resist says the climber isn't connected to its demonstration."
76	5	Man arrested for trying to smuggle a migrant in the DASHBOARD of a car across Moroccan border with Spain: A Moroccan man has been arrested for trying to smuggle a migrant in the dashboard of a car across the border with Spain. The refugee was found by Spanish police hiding in the tiny hollow next to the engine in Ceuta, a Spanish enclave in northern Africa. He was one of two sub-Saharan migrants detained for trying to cross the border into Spain. The other was found hiding in the rear seat of the vehicle. It comes just days after a Moroccan woman was arrested in Ceuta for trying to smuggle a migrant, 19, from Gabon, inside a suitcase. A refugee was found hiding in the dashboard of a car in a desperate attempt to reach Spain The other migrant was found hiding in the rear seat of the vehicle at Ceuta today Details of the latest incident emerged as more than 1,000 African migrants yesterday tried to cross into Spain via Ceuta by storming a border fence. Dozens of migrants made it to the top of the six metre barbed wire fence in the early hours before being lifted down by cranes, footage from local TV station Faro TV showed. Only two people were allowed into Ceuta to be taken to hospital while the rest were returned to Morocco, the Spanish government said in a statement.
213	7	Sonoma County DACA youth face renewal deadline with a sense of resignation: For Sonoma County immigrants participating in the federal Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, Thursday’s final renewal deadline came and went with a sense of uncertainty, but also hope. Across the country, 77 percent, or 118,000, of the 154,000 DACA recipients eligible for a two-year renewal applied for the Obama-era program, which shielded from deportation undocumented immigrants who were brought into the United States as children. That’s a fraction of the country’s 800,000 DACA youth. In Sonoma County, that renewal period ending Thursday benefited only an estimated 430 of the county’s roughly 3,000 DACA youth. The program, which President Trump ended Sept. 5, allowed participants to legally work, obtain driver’s licenses, serve in the military and more easily pursue a higher education. Unless Congress steps in to resurrect DACA, the vast majority of DACA youth in Sonoma County are facing a return to their prior status. Among those not eligible to apply for an extension is Omar Santiago, the 22-year-old president of Sonoma State University’s UndocuScholars Coalition, who first applied for protected status on his 18th birthday, March 9, 2013. After two renewals, his DACA protections end March 2019. “I am feeling determined,” he said.
482	6	Under Pressure From Trump, ICE Is Pushing Legal Boundaries: The Gregorio brothers had just begun their daybreak commute to work assembling wooden pallets in late January when federal officers in SUVs pulled them over in a Chicago suburb. Jhony and Bayron were in one car. A third brother, Marco, was traveling separately, in another car behind them.
281	7	Made in China 2025's Affect on US & Mexican Immigrant Talks Fight Against ICE: Made in China 2025's Affect on US & Mexican Immigrant Talks Fight Against ICE On this episode of The Critical Hour, with Dr. Wilmer Leon, we discuss the “Made in China 2025 Initiative” and where it will leave the US. Also, an immigrant-rights activist faces her second deportation hearing at Seattle Immigration Court while fighting for the rights of other migrants against I. C. E. Hear about her struggle. Caleb Maupin — Journalist and political analyst who focuses his coverage on US foreign policy and the global system of monopoly capitalism and imperialism. He has appeared on Russia Today, PressTV, Telesur, and other major networks. Maru Mora-Villalpando — Nationally known immigrant-rights activist and co-founder of the Latinx organization Mijente and a community organizer with Northwest Detention Center Resistance. We'd love to get your feedback at radio@sputniknews.
475	8	Trump may condition NAFTA accord on Mexico toughening its immigration laws: Washington, Apr 23 (EFE).- President Donald Trump suggested Monday on Twitter that he might condition a renegotiated NAFTA accord on Mexico’s toughening enforcement of its immigration laws. “Mexico, whose laws on immigration are very tough, must stop people from going through Mexico and into the U.S. We may make this a condition of the new NAFTA Agreement,” tweeted Trump, referring to the North American Free Trade Agreement currently being renegotiated among the US, Mexico and Canada. “Our Country cannot accept what is happening! Also, we must get Wall funding fast,” he added. Trump made his Twitter remarks shortly after US media reported the arrival in California of 50 members of a Central American immigrant caravan that had been crossing Mexico from south to north for weeks and officially ended its journey in early April in Mexico City. In another tweet, Trump said that “I have instructed the Secretary of Homeland Security not to let these large Caravans of people into our Country.” “It is a disgrace. We are the only Country in the World so naive! WALL” the president added. The caravan grew to some 1,500 people and, coinciding with its northward trek, Trump ordered the deployment of the National Guard along the southern US border, with about 900 troops initially being sent to the border area, according to figures provided by the US Border Patrol.
270	5	"Jordan commander: Islamic State expands hold in border camp for Syrians: Jordanian soldiers stand at the north eastern border with Syria, close to the informal Rukban camp. The commander of Jordan's border guards says Islamic State militants are expanding their influence in the sprawling border camp for tens of thousands of displaced Syrians. JORDAN-SYRIA BORDER — The commander of Jordan's border guards says Islamic State extremists are expanding their influence in a sprawling border camp for displaced Syrians, posing a growing threat to the U. S. -allied kingdom. Brig. Gen. Sami Kafawin spoke during a tour of the desert area where Jordan, Syria and Iraq meet. A ride in a military helicopter offered a view of the Rukban camp, an expanse of makeshift shelters housing tens of thousands of Syrians. Conditions in the camp deteriorated sharply after Jordan sealed its border in June, following a cross-border IS attack that killed seven Jordanian border guards. Kafawin said on Tuesday that ""the (militant) threat is increasing, especially in this area. "" He says that nonetheless, Jordan tries to ensure the displaced Syrians get food and medical treatment."
41	8	"Trump wants 256 miles of border wall in Texas: President Donald Trump's administration plans to build 256 miles of new barriers on the Texas-Mexico border, according to a Democratic congressman who said he was briefed on the plan. U. S. Rep. Henry Cuellar, who represents a district that abuts the border in south Texas, said the $25 billion that Trump is seeking as part of a deal on a pathway for citizenship for ""dreamers"" — the undocumented immigrants brought to the U. S. as children — would fund construction of the new fencing and barriers. Cuellar said Department of Homeland Security officials presented the plan during a briefing to the House Appropriations subcommittee on homeland security, of which Cuellar is a member. The administration seeks $1. 6 billion in this year's budget for 60 miles of new fencing in Texas' Rio Grande Valley. The area has become the busiest route for illegal crossings. In the following years, DHS would seek to fund 66 additional miles of barriers in the area, Cuellar said, citing the briefing. DHS would also build 130 miles of barriers in the Laredo sector, effectively walling off all of south Texas. ""A lot of this is going to be delayed for many, many years,"" Cuellar said, implying a showdown between the federal government and border landowners and property-rights activists."
223	5	Asylum seekers face tough new deportation rules for foreign criminals: GETTY - STOCK IMAGE Tough action to speed up the removal of foreign crooks is being proposed today Appeals against deportation lodged by criminals from overseas would be dealt with by the courts within 28 days. The crackdown would also apply to asylum seekers who lose their claims to stay in Britain. The average time for the tribunal process is more than 65 days – with some cases even lasting 100 days. GETTY - STOCK IMAGE The move would also apply to asylum seekers who lose their claims to stay in Britain (example photo) It is vital that foreign nationals who have no right to remain in the country should be removed as quickly as possible Liz Truss Justice Secretary Liz Truss, who is unveiling the plan today, said: “It is vital that foreign nationals who have no right to remain in the country should be removed as quickly as possible. ” The ambitious proposals come after figures yesterday showed that the removal of failed asylum seekers has plunged to a record low. The new system is intended to replace a previous fast-track system which was quashed in 2015 by a court ruling.
57	5	Seeking aid abroad, Lebanon uproots Syrian refugees: BEIRUT (AP) — Donor nations are raising money for Syria's neighbors to aid in hosting refugees of the country's civil war. But a leading international rights group and the U.N. 's refugee agency say Lebanese authorities are evicting refugees from towns and camps in the country on questionable legal grounds. Three years ago, Ahmad Mohsin was forced to relocate his campsite in Lebanon's Bekaa Valley after soldiers raided the community of Syrian refugees where he lived and smashed their belongings. The message was clear, he says — they were not wanted. Though Syrian President Bashar Assad appears to have largely suppressed the revolt against him in many parts of neighboring Syria, the U.N. and rights groups say the country is still not safe for refugee return.
345	10	PartyNextDoor Arrested On Drug Possession Charges At The Border: Rapper PartyNextDoor was arrested on charges of drug possession in Niagara County on Thursday. According to local news affiliate WIVB, New York State Troopers arrested Party, real name Jahron Brathwaite, and a second man named Jerome Nevins after Xanax and Oxycodone were discovered on their bus. Speaking of NextDoor, the pair were driving in from our neighbor to the North when they were stopped at the border by U. S. Customs on the Lewiston-Queenston Bridge. It was then that State Troopers were called to assist and found the prescription drugs. Related: Aaron Carter Leaves Rehab After Just Two Weeks Nevins, an Ontario native, was found in alleged possession of Xanax while PartyNextDoor is said to have had both Xanax and Oxy on him. Both men were reportedly charged with seventh-degree criminal possession of a controlled substance, cited, and released. [Image via Instagram/NY State Police. ] Tags: busted!
473	6	"#MeToo, immigrants will have strong presence in SOTU address: WASHINGTON (AP) — President Donald Trump will deliver his first State of the Union address Tuesday night, but he won't be the only one trying to send a message. Here's a look at some of the ways lawmakers are using the speech to make a point: ___ #METOO Many female Democratic lawmakers plan to follow the lead of celebrities at this year's Golden Globe Awards by wearing black to the State of the Union. Allegations of sexual harassment have had a big impact on Capitol Hill in recent months, forcing resignations and retirements on both sides of the political aisle as well as ongoing Ethics Committee investigations. ""Wearing black to #SOTU isn't about Trump,"" tweeted Rep. Lois Frankel, D-Fla. ""It's about showing solidarity with a movement- from hotels to farm fields, to Congress, we're standing with workers to end sexual harassment in all workplaces. "" Some lawmakers are also bringing attention to the issue through the guest they have invited to the State of the Union. Rep. Annie Kuster, D-N. H. , has invited Chessy Prout, a victim of sexual assault while she attended high school. ""The conversation about sexual harassment and assault in our nation is long overdue, but through the efforts of Chessy and the #MeToo movement, it is finally gaining steam,"" Kuster said."
249	5	Trump admin pushes Congress to fix immigration 'loopholes': In this May 28, 2018, photo, President Donald Trump speaks during a Memorial Day ceremony at Arlington National Cemetery in Arlington, Va. Trump on Tuesday seized on an error by liberal activists who tweeted photos of young-looking immigrants at the U. S. -Mexico border in steel cages and blamed the current administration for separating immigrant children from their parents. The photos were taken by The Associated Press in 2014, when President Barack Obama was in office. The photo captions reference children who crossed the border as unaccompanied minors.
222	6	Berlin grants asylum to alleged Turkey plotters: Spiegel: Germany has granted asylum to four Turkish soldiers, including one Ankara accuses of playing a leading role in the attempted military coup of July 2016, in a new setback for relations between the two countries, weekly magazine Der Spiegel reported. By granting them asylum, German authorities make it impossible for them to be extradited to face charges, a refusal likely to dismay Turkish authorities, who accuse them of treachery and membership in a terrorist organisation. Turkey accuses Ilham P. , a former Turkish colonel whose surname cannot be published in full because of German privacy practices, then head of the Ankara military academy, of being ring-leader of the group. The Foreign Ministry could not immediately comment on the report. Relations between European countries and Turkey have been strained ever since the coup attempt and the crackdown that followed it, with many bemoaning Turkey’s authoritarian turn under President Recep Tayyip Erdogan. Large numbers of German citizens have been detained in Turkey for what Berlin regards as political reasons, most of them over alleged links to coup plotters. Also on Friday, a Greek court ruled that a man accused of being behind a series of suicide bombings in Turkey could not be extradited because his life would be in danger at home.
301	4	Merkel, to Survive, Agrees to Border Camps for Migrants: Ms. Merkel agreed to the latest policy after an insurrection over migration policy led by her interior minister, Horst Seehofer, threatened to bring down her coalition. Mr. Seehofer demanded that Germany block migrants at the border if they have no papers, or have already registered in another European country. Ms. Merkel, who supports free movement across Europe's borders, has been opposed to any moves effectively resurrecting border controls until Monday night, when she made the deal to stay in power. . Since [2015] the number of new migrants has dropped to a fraction of what it was three years ago. But the good will has been eroding as Germany has struggled to absorb those already in the country. . An ascendant far right has relentlessly pushed the narrative that the migrant crisis is continuing and that crime is up. It is actually at a 25-year low but a series of high-profile assaults in Germany involving migrants, including the rape and killing of a 19-year-old German student and the terrorist attack on a Christmas market that killed 12 people, has helped to turn public sentiment.
157	7	Americans Are Not That Divided or Conservative on Immigration: By Deborah Schildkraut, Tufts University Lawmakers in Washington, from the president down to first-term members of Congress, may be misjudging how the public feels about immigration. President Donald Trump appears to believe the country needs and wants hard-line policies. Members of Congress haven’t stopped him from carrying out those policies. Do the American people really support them? It turns out that government officials who think the majority of Americans want hard-line immigration policies are wrong. Elected officials – both Republican and Democratic – tend to think that their constituents are more conservative than they actually are on immigration and other issues. Moreover, recent research suggests that Republican constituents have been more likely to contact their elected officials than Democratic constituents. Yet, my research on public opinion about immigration, and that of other social scientists, shows that the American public is supportive of more welcoming immigration policies. Welcoming policies might include a pathway to citizenship for undocumented immigrants, accepting more asylum claims or allowing the use of multiple languages in public places. Most Americans support a path to citizenship I am a scholar of public opinion about immigration and national identity, and I have studied how people from a variety of backgrounds feel about immigration-driven diversity in the United States.
152	4	Bay Area physicians say immigrant families fearful of trips to the doctor's office: Doctors in the East Bay say they are seeing the effects that fear is having on the health of their immigrant patients. They say sometimes those patients are even scared to go to the doctor.Dr. Jyothi Marbin is the Director of Pediatric Research for the underserved residency program at UCSF and she says she has seen people un-enrolling from programs like food stamps and she has even seen families afraid to come into clinics or the doctor's office.Marbin says it's because of concerns that they might be put on the record in some way and they might be putting themselves or their families at risk of deportation.Marbin decided to organize an immigrant healthcare symposium tomorrow in Oakland, bringing together over 200 providers, clinicians, and politicians.Pediatrician Dr. Noemi Spinazzi is on the front lines seeing kids with stomachaches and headaches as she says they succumb to stress over fears of the family members deportation. Or they don't go to the doctor if they are sick.Spinazzi says she also sees families who are afraid to report domestic violence for fear of repercussions from the government.Starting a dialogue on all of this is a way for Dr.
243	7	"Arizona Immigrant Advocate Elias Bermudez Charged With Tax Fraud: Immigrant advocate Elias Bermudez has been a controversial figure in Arizona and other states for a long time. He's been accused of offering legal services he wasn't qualified to provide. Bermudez, who lives in Tucson, is now facing a new legal problem: He's been charged with scamming the IRS and immigrants by preparing fraudulent tax documents that enabled people to get tax credits they didn't deserve. ""Bermudez added a false number of dependents to his clients' returns in order to maximize refundable credits under the Additional Child Tax Credit. "" — IRS criminal division Facebook Twitter More shares recommend reddit email From 2010 to 2012, Bermudez prepared at least 27 tax forms for immigrants that claimed child tax credits his clients didn't deserve, according to a newly unsealed federal indictment. ""Specifically, Bermudez added a false number of dependents to his clients' returns in order to maximize refundable credits under the Additional Child Tax Credit,"" the October 3 indictment says. The credits offered by the IRS are worth up to $1,000 per qualifying child. But the kids must be U. S. citizens or legal immigrants, have lived with the taxpayer for at least six months, and have received at least half of their support from the taxpayer."
308	6	Ninety migrants feared drowned off Libya: Ninety migrants are feared drowned after a boat capsized off the Libyan coast, says the UN’s migration agency. Three survivors said most of those who drowned were Pakistani nationals. Libyans were also aboard. Libya has for years been a major transit route for migrants trying to reach southern Europe by sea. EU countries have wrangled over both reducing migrant numbers and deciding which countries are responsible for processing migrants on arrival. The EU struck a deal with the Libyan coastguard last year to help intercept migrants and return them to Libya. But aid agencies and the UN accused European governments of taking an “inhuman” approach. What happened in the latest disaster? From a boat carrying more than 90, only three survivors are reported – two of whom managed to swim to shore, while the third was picked up by a fishing boat. “Ten bodies are reported to have washed up on Libyan shores,” the International Organization for Migration (IOM) said in a statement. Unusually, there were also Libyans among the dead and survivors of the shipwreck, reports the BBC’s North Africa correspondent Rana Jawad. The Facebook page of the security directorate in the coastal city of Zuwara, where the bodies washed up, said a Libyan woman had drowned, but that of the three survivors two were Libyan nationals.
307	5	Film explores Chinese Exclusion Act as US immigration ‘DNA’: NEW YORK (AP) – Politicians seizing on immigrants as an election issue. Newspaper headlines calling for action. Talk of legislation to institute a ban. If viewers of “The Chinese Exclusion Act” documentary end up with a sense of deja vu between the film’s subject, a law from 1882 that barred Chinese people from coming to the United States, and current events, that’s pretty much the point, according to its filmmakers. “The ‘A-Ha! ’ for anybody coming to it . is oh, there’s a history to how we have decided who can come and when they can come, who’s a citizen and who’s not a citizen,” said documentarian Ric Burns, who made the film with Li-Shin Yu. It airs on the PBS television series “American Experience” on Tuesday. The Chinese Exclusion Act was America’s first and only immigration act that barred people from a specific country from coming to the United States. After its initial enactment for a 10-year period in 1882, it was regularly renewed and then made permanent in 1904. It was finally repealed in 1943. Making the documentary was an eye-opening experience for Burns and Yu, who had never heard of the law and believe most of the American public isn’t aware of it either, but should be.
158	6	Attorney: Parents in asylum hearing were in fragile state: By Elliot Spagat and Emily Schmall | Associated Press LOS FRESNOS, Texas — Gabriel Canas, a bus driver from El Salvador who fled his homeland after members of MS-13 stormed his bus, did an initial screening interview for asylum under the worst circumstances. He hadn’t spoken to his 9-year-old daughter since the Border Patrol separated them two weeks earlier. And in that time, he had been moved repeatedly from one detention facility to another. “The day I had my interview, I wasn’t well because they’d taken my daughter away. I was worried sick. I didn’t know where she was. I hadn’t spoken to her,” Canas told a judge at the Port Isabel Detention Center in Texas, where parents of many of the more than 2,000 children who were separated under the Trump administration’s “zero tolerance” policy await their fate. His case illustrates an overlooked effect of the separations: Some immigrants complain that they stumbled through their first asylum interviews when they were deeply distraught over losing their children. The interviews can have life-changing consequences because they are critical to establishing why families cannot return home safely. Not until a day after the interview did Canas learn through a lawyer what happened to his child.
298	8	SOMALILAND ASKS US FOR EXEMPTION TO TRUMP'S TRAVEL BAN: MOGADISHU, Somalia (AP) — Somalia’s breakaway northern territory of Somaliland is asking the United States for an exemption to President Donald Trump’s executive order on travelers from seven predominantly Muslim nations. Somalia is one of the affected countries, but Somaliland considers itself an independent state after breaking away in 1991. It continues to seek international recognition for its claim. A statement by Somaliland’s foreign affairs minister, Saad Ali Shire, says the republic wrote a letter Monday to Secretary of State Rex Tillerson and Homeland Security Secretary John Kelly requesting the exemption to the travel ban. The statement says Somaliland argued it “has not experienced the emergence of terrorist organizations,” in contrast to Somalia, where homegrown extremist group al-Shabab continues to carry out deadly attacks.
282	8	"Three killed after migrant boat sinks off coast of Spain: MADRID Three migrants from sub-Saharan Africa were killed when their boat capsized in the Mediterranean but the Spanish navy managed to rescue another 30 people in the group, a coast guard spokeswoman said on Wednesday. The navy went to rescue the migrants after their dinghy sank on Tuesday near the island of Alboran, halfway between Spain's southern coast and its North African enclave of Melilla. A 10 year-old girl and an older woman died on Tuesday, and police divers found the body of a man, whose age is unknown, near the scene of the sinking on Wednesday morning. ""They are from sub-Saharan Africa, but we do not know which country,"" the spokeswoman said. Another woman was airlifted to hospital in the southern coastal town of Almeria, where the survivors arrived late on Tuesday. The coast guard saved another nine migrants, all sub-Saharan African men apparently in good health, from a small boat about 10. 5 miles (17 km) from the town of Tarifa on Spain's southernmost tip on Wednesday. One thousand migrants arrived in Spain from North Africa between Jan. 1 and April 9, and 47 died in the attempt during that time, the International Organization for Migration says."
72	5	"Trump's immigration ban took another big blow in court: A federal judge suspended President Donald Trump's travel ban in Virginia on Monday, specifically putting it on hold in the commonwealth until higher courts decide its fate. Her ruling followed the Ninth Circuit federal appeals court's ruling from Thursday that had already prevented the order from being enforced nationally. Judge Leonie M. Brinkema, however, went further than other courts had previously in arguing that the executive order temporarily barring all refugees as well as people from seven majority-Muslim countries from entering the US violated the First Amendment's protection to freedom of religion. ""Just as the Supreme Court has held that 'the world is not made brand new every morning,' a person is not made brand new simply by taking the oath of office,"" Brinkema wrote in her ruling. ""The 'Muslim ban' was a centerpiece of the president's campaign for months, and the press release calling for it was still available on his website as of the day this Memorandum Opinion is being entered. "" Brinkema was referring to a statement on Trump's campaign website published December 7, 2015, ""calling for a total and complete shutdown of Muslims entering the United States until our country's representatives can figure out what is going on."
239	4	Hungary's 'Stop Soros' bill proposes jail time for people trying to help illegal migrants: Hungary has put forward controversial proposals to hand out jail sentences to citizens caught assisting illegal migrants. The new legislation has been called the 'Stop Soros' bill by Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban - a name derived from George Soros, an Hungarian-American philanthropist who pledges thousands each year to help migrants. The bill suggests that individuals or organizations that help migrants submit requests for asylum when they are not entitled to protection be punished with up to a year in prison. Scroll down for video George Soros's Open Society Foundations (OSF) recently said it is moving to Germany, leaving what it called 'an increasingly repressive political and legal environment' in Hungary Prime Minister Orban, who won a landslide election victory last month, has repeatedly accused Soros and his organisation of encouraging migrants to try and gain entry to the country. Soros's Open Society Foundations (OSF) recently announced it would be moving to Germany, leaving behind what it called 'an increasingly repressive political and legal environment' in Hungary. 'The government of Hungary has denigrated and misrepresented our work and repressed civil society for the sake of political gain, using tactics unprecedented in the history of the European Union,' OSF president Patrick Gaspard said in a statement last month.
417	3	Murder of migrant worker; a pattern of hate crimes in Rajasthan: The hate crime involving the murder of a migrant laborer named Mohammed Afrazul, 47, has garnered national attention. Afrazul was from Malda in West Bengal; he was hacked and then burnt alive in Rajasthan over an alleged affair. The accused made his nephew film the killing and then went on to rant about love jihad and Islam. After the video of the attack was uploaded on social media, it got widespread condemnation from leaders of several political parties. The accused and his nephew were taken into custody. Mohammed Afrazul's brutal killing in Rajasthan should shame us all; if the sickening hate behind it does not disturb our conscience, nothing will. For a moment, let's forget our political differences, and think of humanity alone. Where are we headed? — Sanjay Jha (@JhaSanjay) December 11, 2017 We strongly condemn the heinous killing of a labourer from Bengal in Rajasthan. How can people be so inhuman. Sad — Mamata Banerjee (@MamataOfficial) December 7, 2017 Not being able to finish school, Afrazul chose to move to Rajasthan along with his father and a few others from his village in West Bengal. He worked as a daily wage laborer saving money to get his siblings educated and pay for their weddings; his elder brother referring to him as the ‘hero of the family’.
224	5	Merkel threatens to crash EU’s free movement with migration plan: GETTY Angela Merkel threatens to disrupt the EU's free movement areas with new policy plan The German Chancellor was put under pressure from her Bavarian allies the in the Christian Social Union, whose leader Horst Seehofer threatened to resign as Germany’s interior minister unless the country toughened up its border controls. Whether Mr Seehofer’s ultimatum was truthful or not, Mrs Merkel travelled to Brussels for June’s European Council summit with one goal in mind – secure her job by delivering a common European migration policy. After nine excruciating hours, European leaders eventually reached an agreement on how they should proceed to tackle the perceived migration issue plaguing the EU’s stability. Their deal, which was not enough to satisfy Mr Seehofer, failed to offer a shared responsibility for migrants arriving in Europe, instead allowing “voluntary solidarity” for the Continent’s efforts to tackle legal immigration with so-called “disembarkation platforms” to dissuade people from making the often fatal Mediterranean crossing. As well as the camps, leaders also agreed to centres being set up inside the EU’s borders, but there were no details on which countries may set them up or take in refugees. French President Emmanuel Macron said they would be in countries where migrants first arrive in the bloc.
91	7	San Diego immigration officers arrest 44 in week-long operation: About a month after the first large-scale immigration arrest operation in San Diego under the Trump administration rounded up 115 people, officers took another 44 into custody in a second week-long enforcement effort that ended Friday. In the days leading up to the operation, Immigration and Customs Enforcement officers located nine other people who would’ve been targeted by the action, bringing the total number of announced arrests to 53. The March operation was directed by national headquarters — April’s effort was a locally directed “cross check operation” and a little smaller in scope, according to ICE spokeswoman Lauren Mack. “The scheduling details pertaining to all of ERO’s enforcement operations, including local cross check operations, are law enforcement sensitive,” Mack said when asked about the timing of the two operations. Of the 53 people arrested, nine had pending criminal charges, 11 had criminal convictions and 10 had previously been removed from the U. S. The agency declined to clarify how many of the remaining 23 arrests were collateral, meaning that they were not targets of the operation but encountered in the process of arresting others. A news release about the operation called out S.
355	8	Challenge to Trump travel ban moves forward in two courts: SAN FRANCISCO The most consequential legal challenge to U. S. President Donald Trump's travel ban will proceed on two tracks in the next few days, including a U. S. appeals court vote that could reveal some judges who disagree with their colleagues on the bench and support the arguments behind the new president's most controversial executive order. In a Seattle federal courtroom, the state of Washington will attempt to probe the president's motive in drafting his Jan. 27 order, while in the 9th U. S. Circuit Court of Appeals, judges will decide whether to reconsider an appeal in that same case decided last week. Trump's directive, which he said was necessary to protect the United States from attacks by Islamist militants, barred people from Iran, Iraq, Libya, Somalia, Sudan, Syria and Yemen from entering the country for 90 days. Refugees were banned for 120 days, except those from Syria, who were banned indefinitely. The ban was backed by around half of Americans, according to a Reuters/Ipsos poll, but triggered protests across the country and caused chaos at some U. S. and overseas airports. U. S. District Judge James Robart in Seattle suspended the order after its legality was challenged by Washington state, eliciting a barrage of angry Twitter messages from Trump against the judge and the court system.
350	8	Illegal immigrants urged to leave Saudi Arabia before June 25: According to the Ghana Embassy in Riyadh, it has come to the notice of officials of the Embassy that many Ghanaians illegally resident in Saudi Arabia were not heeding to the call to take advantage of the Amnesty granted by the Saudi government to leave without penalty. Ghanaian illegal immigrants living and working in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia have been advised to take advantage of the 90 days general amnesty put forward by the Saudi government and leave the country before it expires on June 25, 2017. A statement issued and signed by Marcel Domayele, the Acting Head of Mission said Ghanaians who fail to take advantage of the Amnesty could be arrested, detained and fined for non- compliance with the country’s laws. It said the Embassy was still processing Emergency Travel Certificates and therefore urged Ghanaian residents to take advantaged. The statement said the Embassy had gathered that, “False rumours by some died hard illegal Ghanaians and their cohorts are doing the rounds that the amnesty directive by the governmentof Saudi Arabia is fake.” “Subsequently, such illegal Ghanaian illegal immigrants are digging in their heels to continue to stay in Saudi Arabia at all cost only to soon turn into consular nightmare for the Embassy.” “Indeed, they are on record as stated that unless and until they see the faces of Embassy officials in WhatsApp videos circulating and urging them to leave under the amnesty, they will never believe it, let alone appear for Emergency Travel Certificates.
220	6	Migrant boat capsizes off Libya, 90 feared dead, mostly Pakistanis: GENEVA/TRIPOLI (Reuters) - An estimated 90 migrants are feared to have drowned off the coast of Libya after a smuggler’s boat capsized early on Friday, leaving three known survivors and 10 bodies washed up on shore, the International Organisation for Migration (IOM) said. Survivors told aid workers that most of the migrants on board were Pakistanis, who make up a growing number of those attempting the hazardous voyage across the Mediterranean to Italy from North Africa, IOM spokeswoman Olivia Headon said. “They have given an estimate of 90 people who drowned during the capsize, but we still need to verify the exact number of people who lost their lives during the tragedy,” Headon, speaking from Tunis, told a Geneva news briefing. “What has been reported to us is that it’s mostly Pakistanis who were on board the boat, but we still need to verify the nationalities and how many from what country,” she said. Ten bodies have washed up on Libyan shores so far, two of them Libyans and the rest Pakistanis, she said. “I believe the Libyan coastguard is looking for other survivors off the coast,” Headon added. Another IOM spokesman, Leonard Doyle, told Reuters Television that the boat was believed to have left shore on Thursday before capsizing early on Friday morning.
299	3	PR, citizenship should not be defined by fees and papers alone: Mr Ernest Chen Zhengkai's idea to increase fees to apply for permanent resident status does not make sense (Charge higher fees to reflect value of PR, citizenship; April 13). If the fees were increased to $4,014, would it really attract fewer applicants? Those who can afford it would still apply. Should we, then, increase it to, say, $10,000 to make sure only genuine applicants apply? At what point do we stop raising it? In the end, deserving applicants who are not well-to-do may be deprived of a chance to apply. PR and citizenship should not be defined by fees and paper qualifications. They should be defined by how long a person lives in Singapore and his contribution and commitment to the country. They should be defined by how long a person lives here and his contribution and commitment to the country. factors such as volunteer work, tax records, business set-up and character are all considerations. Even if a person invests millions of dollars in Singapore, making him a contributor to our economy, other factors such as volunteer work, tax records, business set-up and character should all be considered. An applicant's success is not guaranteed.
128	6	"Australia abolishes visa programme used largely by Indians: Australia today abolished a visa programme used by over 95,000 temporary foreign workers, majority of them Indians, to tackle the growing unemployment in the country. The programme known as 457 visa allows business to employ foreign workers for a period up to four years in skilled jobs where there is a shortage of Australian workers. ""We are an immigration nation, but the fact remains: Australian workers must have priority for Australian jobs, so we are abolishing the 457 visa, the visa that brings temporary foreign workers into our country,"" said Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull. The majority of the visa holders were from India followed by the UK and China. ""We will no longer allow 457 visa to be passports to jobs that could and should go to Australians,"" he said. He said Australia will adopt a new 'Australians first' approach to skilled migration. As at September 30, there were 95,757 workers in Australia on primary 457 visa programme, ABC reported. The programme will be replaced by another visa programme, with new restrictions. ""It is important businesses still get access to the skills they need to grow and invest, so the 457 visa will be replaced by a new temporary visa, specifically designed to recruit the best and brightest in the national interest,"" Turnbull said."
480	7	Judge rules against ending program to protect Dreamers: WASHINGTON (AP) — A federal judge has ruled against the Trump administration’s decision to end a program protecting some young immigrants from deportation. U. S. District Judge John D. Bates in Washington says the Department of Homeland Security’s decision to rescind the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program “was unlawful and must be set aside. ” Bates is giving DHS 90 days to “better explain its view” that DACA is unlawful. After that, he says, DHS “must accept and process new as well as renewal DACA applications. ” DACA temporarily shielded from deportation so-called Dreamers — immigrants brought illegally to the U. S. as children. President Donald Trump announced last year that he would end the program. Bates’ ruling Tuesday night comes in a pair of cases whose lead plaintiffs are the NAACP and Princeton University.
192	9	China building network of refugee camps along border with North Korea: Document suggests at least five camps are being set up as Beijing prepares for possible influx of refugees should Kim Jong-un’s regime collapse China is quietly building a network of refugee camps along its 880-mile (1,416km) border with North Korea as it braces for the human exodus that a conflict or potentially messy collapse of Kim Jong-un’s regime might unleash. The existence of the camps, first reported in English by the New York Times, emerged in an apparently leaked internal document from a state-run telecoms giant that has apparently been tasked with providing them with internet services. Q&A Why does the North Korean regime pursue a nuclear programme? Show Hide Much of the regime’s domestic legitimacy rests on portraying the country as under constant threat from the US and its regional allies, South Korea and Japan. To support the claim that it is in Washington’s crosshairs, North Korea cites the tens of thousands of US troops lined up along the southern side of the demilitarised zone – the heavily fortified border dividing the Korean peninsula. Faced with what it says are US provocations, North Korea says it has as much right as any other state to develop a nuclear deterrent.
293	7	"India, EU express 'deep concern' over Rohingya refugee crisis: The Rohingya Crisis has caused significant concern in India and EU nations. Reuters file photo. India and the European Union today expressed ""deep concern"" over the Rohingya refugee crisis during their 14th summit with the two sides urging Myanmar to work with Bangladesh for their return. After the talks between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Tusk, the two sides underscored the need for early return of the displaced people of all communities to northern Rakhine state in Myanmar. Addressing a joint press event, Tusk said the two sides wanted de-escalation of tensions and full adherence to international obligations in Myanmar and access of people to humanitarian aid. ""The Rohingya people must be able to return voluntarily with safety and dignity. We call for implementation of recommendations of the (Kofi Annan-led) International Rakhine Advisory Commission to tackle the root cause of this crisis. As a neighbour India stands first in the line to respond,"" Tusk said. Responding to a PIL last month, the NDA government had told the Supreme Court that Rohingya Muslims are ""illegal"" immigrants in the country and their continued stay had ""serious national security ramifications""."
297	6	"Minneapolis team keeps immigrants informed during Super Bowl: MINNEAPOLIS — Military Humvees, officers in combat gear and the occasional F-16 flying over downtown Minneapolis are all part of the beefed up security measures that come with hosting the Super Bowl. But those images can be scary for some immigrants and refugees who are worried about terrorism, deportation or even a war they can't forget. A special team with the city of Minneapolis has been working for weeks to reassure immigrant communities that all the extra muscle is here to keep them safe. The team is reaching out through radio and television broadcasts, social media and in-person meetings with elders and community members. The goal is to keep communities informed about everything from security to transportation issues, and let them know they can also participate in the fun. ""It's a welcoming place . for people to come downtown and enjoy,"" said Michael Yang, a southeast Asian community specialist with the city. ""You shouldn't have to fear anything. "" Minnesota has been a welcoming state for immigrants over the last several decades, thanks in part to its social service programs. The state is home to the largest Somali community in the U."
413	7	"I will protect you!' Marine Le Pen vows to end all immigration to France if elected president: The far-Right leader Marine Le Pen on Sunday sought to mobilise her supporters six days ahead of France's most unpredictable presidential election in decades by pledging to suspend all immigration and shield voters from ""savage globalisation"". Opinion polls have for months shown Le Pen and centrist Emmanuel Macron qualifying on Sunday for the May 7 run-off, but the gap with conservative Francois Fillon and far-Leftist Jean-Luc Melenchon has been tightening. ""I will protect you. My first measure as president will be to reinstate France's borders,"" Le Pen said to wide applause and cheers from the crowd of about 5,000, prompting the Front National's (FN) traditional ""This is our home! "" chant."
452	8	Surge in migrant children at government shelters as Trump admin pushes 'zero tolerance': HHS spokesman Kenneth Wolfe said Wednesday that 8,887 migrant children were in shelters on April 30, meaning there was a 22 percent increase in the last month. The increase comes after Attorney General Jeff Sessions said this month that the administration was going to take a “zero tolerance” approach by seeking to prosecute all families crossing the border illegally. Now, when parents are charged with improper entry, a misdemeanor on the first offense, they are jailed and separated from their children. The children are then referred to the ORR. The numbers do not include children who are in the care of family sponsors, Wolfe said, noting that about 93 percent of all unaccompanied children are released to sponsors. And over 30,000 children have been referred to ORR so far in fiscal year 2018, he said. There were 40,810 referrals in all of fiscal year 2017. Wolfe added that the government has 1,218 beds on reserve if they are needed. And while those numbers do not specify children who actually arrived at the border unaccompanied, or children who were rendered unaccompanied after they were separated from their families, immigrant activists said they were not surprised at the increase.
454	7	"Asylum-Seeking Student Says Nothing Can Stand Between Him And Poetry: Allan Monga, a junior at Deering High School in Portland, Maine, traveled to Washington, D. C. to compete in the Poetry Out Loud contest on Monday. It's a national competition in which students recite great works of poetry, and it's run by the National Endowment for the Arts and the Poetry Foundation. But Monga, who says he fled violence in his home country of Zambia, was initially barred from the national final because of his immigration status: He's an asylum seeker and does not yet have U. S. citizenship. Poetry Out Loud's official rules require permanent residence, so Monga filed a lawsuit against the National Endowment for the Arts and the Poetry Foundation. A judge granted a motion allowing him to compete, and he went on to represent the state of Maine in the competition. He read two poems but did not advance to the finals. Monga says fighting to compete in Poetry Out Loud was important to him — and others. ""I am not the only kid who's an immigrant, like the Portland public schools [themselves] have a huge body of kids from all over the world who are definitely in my situation,"" Monga says."
171	4	"Arrest of 'dreamer' immigrant could be first under Trump to defy DACA: The Obama administration policy protecting the children of undocumented immigrants who were brought to the United States in their youth may face its first test under the Trump administration when Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents arrested a Mexican migrant in Washington state last week. The arrest of Daniel Ramirez, 23, first reported by Reuters Tuesday evening, is possibly the first of an immigrant protected by the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program during the presidency of Donald Trump. Trump campaigned on the progress to halt undocumented immigration, particularly from Mexico, and to roll back Obama-era programs that provide amnesty to immigrants already living in the country. ICE said in a statement Ramirez is a ""self-admitted gang member"" arrested on Feb. 10 ""during an operation targeting a prior-deported felon."" ""ICE officers took Mr. Ramirez into custody based on his admitted gang affiliation and risk to public safety,"" the statement said. According to the government, gang membership can be an indicator that an immigrant poses a public safety threat. Ramirez's attorney, Theodore Boutrous Jr., said: “The government offered no explanation of why Mr. Ramirez was initially taken into custody and why he is still being held"" and said his client ""had documentation that clearly indicated he had DACA( Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals) status, allowing him to live and work in the United States."""
175	6	Huron University College students boost own fees to help refugees: Students at Huron University College have voted to dramatically increase their own fees to help pay for more refugees to attend the London school, officials announced Monday. The 33% boost in fees will be matched by a contribution from Huron itself. “Today, we are proud to announce that up to five student refugees, already arrived in Canada, will receive a full-tuition scholarship from Huron University College when they register,” Dr. Barry Craig, principal of Huron University College, said. “These actions align with our mission – fostering a sense of responsibility for society exercised both locally and globally.”A focus of those added funds will be to help refugees leaving war-torn Syria, he said. Huron made the announcement to celebrate its partnership with the World University Service of Canada. These actions align with our mission Barry Craig The school’s second such decision this school year; In September, Huron offered $60,000 scholarships for students affected by the Trump administration’s decision to end legal protection to children of illegal U.S. immigrants, so-called Dreamers. The school has “recommitted” to that scholarship, Craig said Monday.
446	6	"Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland face EU sanctions on migrants: EU migration commissioner Dimitris Avramopoulos told reporters in Strasbourg on Tuesday that all three states had neglected their legal obligations to take in asylum seekers from Italy and Greece. ""These are the three member states that have not, I repeat, have not done anything for more than one year or even for the whole duration of the scheme,"" he said. Start the conversation, or Read more at EUobserver."
150	7	Some asylum-seekers struggling to find housing after leaving shelters: MONTREAL — Some of the asylum-seekers who have recently crossed the Canada-U. S. border say they're struggling to find a place to live once they leave government-run temporary shelters. Ahmed Iftikhar, 42, says he walked across the border from New York in late July with his wife and four children. Since then, he says they've been moved from one temporary shelter to another: first a hotel, then the Olympic Stadium, and now a former convent in the city's Ahuntsic-Cartierville borough. The shelters have been set up to receive the surging number of asylum seekers who have been crossing into Quebec in recent weeks, but they are only intended as temporary housing. Asylum-seekers are generally expected to leave the shelters once they receive their first social assistance cheques, but several who spoke to The Canadian Press say that's easier said than done. Iftikhar, who says he fled violence in Kashmir, says he's walked as far as he can in every direction looking for an apartment, but hasn't found anything to accommodate his family of five. He says authorities at the shelter gave him a one-week transit pass and a list of possible addresses to check out, but so far he hasn't had any luck.
35	6	Nearly 100 undocumented immigrants deported to Central America: Why did she do it? Why did she travel more than a thousand miles by bus and then ford the Rio Grande with a small band of desperate voyagers? Why did she endure the arid Texas landscape, with nothing but her common-law husband’s black cap to shield her from the sun? It was simple, the woman said. She had already lost two children in the gang-ridden horror that is El Salvador. Her fear, she said, was that the killers “wanted to wipe out the whole family. ” So the couple set out for the United States on May 13, hoping to reach Houston and her only surviving child, who had slipped across the U. S. border a year ago. They did not make it. Barely an hour after they crossed into Texas, they were captured by the Border Patrol, separated and locked up. On Thursday, the mom, her wrists and ankles in chains, was flown with about 100 other would-be migrants back to El Salvador. Thousands of others are in the same situation, having fled from ultraviolent gangs in El Salvador, Honduras and Guatemala, only to be caught near the U. S.
497	4	The U.S. Business Community Used to Be a Force for Immigration Reform. What Happened?: In 1996, a familiar Republican candidate ran for president calling himself an “America-first” populist, riling up his supporters by claiming that immigrants were “invading” our country. “I’ll build that security fence, and we’ll close it, and we’ll say, ‘Listen, José, you’re not coming in this time!’” shouted the candidate, Pat Buchanan, to raucous applause at an Iowa rally early that year. Anti-immigrant sentiment was simmering across the nation, and it was about to translate into federal policy.
440	5	Third party in German coalition resists moves for refugee processing camps: The third party in Angela Merkel's coalition is resisting moves for migrant processing camps - a plan the German chancellor hoped could save her government. Merkel's Christian Democrats (CDU) and their CSU allies had agreed to set up special transit centres at the border with Austria. The plan, aimed at ending a dispute between the two parties, would see refugees already registered in other EU countries held in the centres and then sent back to the countries where they had registered first. But it has since emerged that the third member of the coalition, the Social Democrats, are sceptical of the idea and want more talks to make the proposal work. Further dispute could put the future of Merkel's three-month government under threat with the CSU demanding action to solve Europe's migrant crisis. The third party in Angela Merkel's coalition is resisting moves for migrant processing camps - a plan the German chancellor (pictured today) hoped could save her government Merkel's Christian Democrats (CDU) and their CSU allies had agreed to set up special transit centres at the border with Austria. The German Chancellor is pictured with Interior Minister Horst Seehofer of the CSU Merkel is pictured with German Minister of Finance Olaf Scholz, from her coalition partners, the Social Democratic Party A Forsa poll this morning showed a majority of Germans are unhappy about the agreement.
51	7	Trump visiting Supreme Court as justices weigh travel ban: WASHINGTON — President Donald Trump is making his first Supreme Court visit at a moment of high legal drama. The justices are weighing what to do with the president's ban on travellers from six mostly Muslim countries. But the reason for his high court trip Thursday is purely ceremonial, to mark Justice Neil Gorsuch's ascension to the bench. Trump has no role in the courtroom ceremony, but presidents often make the trip to the court from the White House to honour their nominees. While the dispute over the travel ban and other controversies have simmered during Trump's first few months in office, his choice of the 49-year-old Gorsuch for the Supreme Court won widespread praise in the legal community as well as unanimous Republican support in the Senate. A federal judge first blocked Trump's initial travel ban in early February. The president issued a revised version in March. It never took effect after judges in Maryland and Hawaii put it on hold. Two federal appeals courts have since upheld those lower court orders. The Trump administration has asked the Supreme Court to allow the ban to take effect immediately. Gorsuch actually has been a member of the high court since April, and he even issued his first opinion on Monday.
241	0	Mexican immigrant 'dreamer' in Seattle sues US over arrest: 0:49 White House is 'keeping a close eye' on crisis at California's Oroville dam Pause 1:32 Press Secretary says press should focus more on leaks than Flynn's resignation 2:23 One arrest as protesters block DeVos from D. C. middle school 2:19 Warren: Shocked to find 'truth was out of order' on the Senate floor 1:26 Who's at the door?
335	7	"France sends more police to Calais after 22 migrants injured in clashes: Police reinforcements arrived Friday in the French port city of Calais after clashes among migrants left 22 people injured, with the interior minister warning of more potential violence among those seeking to cross into Britain. Interior Minister Gerard Collomb told reporters in Calais on Friday that five were injured by gunfire in Thursday's fighting, blaming migrant traffickers and ""totally organized"" gangs. Police were seeking a shooting suspect but have made no arrests, he said. Firearms are rare among migrants, and the shootings were the most serious clash in recent times among migrants around Calais. Two extra police units were arriving Friday, Collomb said. While in the past such violence was spontaneous, he said, it appears to be growing more organized. Collomb said local authorities have dismantled six migrant trafficking networks already this year, compared to 20 in all of 2017. 22 migrants injured in Calais as tensions boil over in French coastal town0:33 The prefecture of the Pas-de-Calais region said the gunfire was the culmination of a showdown between Afghan and Eritrean migrants, fighting each other with sticks and stones, after a meal distribution near the Calais hospital. In a second confrontation, up to 200 Eritrean migrants cornered 30 Afghans near the former site of a makeshift migrant camp that housed thousands of people before it was evacuated and destroyed in 2016."
306	8	"Not aware about Nirav Modi seeking political asylum in UK: Govt: The government was not aware whether bank fraud fugitive Nirav Modi sought political asylum in the UK, official sources said on Wednesday. A media report had said that Nirav Modi was seeking political asylum in the UK. ""We are not aware that he has asked political asylum in the UK. The UK has not informed us that he has sought political asylum in that country,"" said a source. Nirav Modi is wanted by the CBI in the USD 2 billion Punjab National Bank scam. The Interpol has already issued a Red Corner Notice against Nirav Modi, his brother Nishal Modi and his employee Subhash Parab on the request of the CBI. There were reports that Nirav Modi may have visited the UK, France and Belgium in the past few weeks. The sources said Indian missions abroad are conveying to local governments about the Interpol Red Corner Notice against Nirav Modi. The Interpol has issued the Red Corner Notice (RCN) on the basis of charge sheet filed by the CBI in a special court in Mumbai and the arrest warrant issued by the judge special J C Jagdale there. In its Red Corner Notice issued against a fugitive, the Interpol asks its 192 member countries to arrest or detain the person, if spotted in their countries after which extradition or deportation proceedings can begin."
199	5	Border Patrol Seizes Meth Found in Vehicle's Gas Tank - Palm Springs News, Weather, Traffic, Breaking News: El Centro Sector Border Patrol agents assigned to the Highway 86 checkpoint, arrested a man suspected of smuggling methamphetamine inside his vehicle’s gas tank on Saturday morning. The incident occurred at approximately 9:15 a. m. , when a 26-year-old man approached the checkpoint in a 2012 Hyundai Accent. Before the driver reached the primary inspection area, a Border Patrol canine detection team alerted to the driver’s side of the vehicle. Story: Border Patrol Agents Arrest Convicted Sex Offender in Calexico Agents referred the man to secondary inspection for a closer inspection of the vehicle. Story: Border Patrol Discovers Meth in Pickup’s Gas Tank Upon further inspection, Border Patrol agents found 24 packages stuffed inside the vehicle’s gas tank. Agents tested the contents of the packages. That test indicated a positive for characteristics of methamphetamine. Story: Border Patrol Arrests Man with Sexual Assault Warrant The total weight of the methamphetamine was 26. 41 pounds with an estimated street value of $92,435. Gas tanks are a common hiding place drug traffickers use to smuggle their narcotics. The man, a United States citizen, the vehicle and narcotics were turned-over to the Drug Enforcement Administration for further investigation.
29	7	"Austria chancellor backs Visegrad nations on migrant quotas: VIENNA (AP) — Austrian Chancellor Sebastian Kurz says he's positioning his country as a bridge between the ""Visegrad group"" of eastern European nations and their western counterparts. Kurz said he agreed with the Visegrad countries — Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland and Slovakia — that a quota system for migrants was unworkable and on the need to strengthen external borders. Speaking alongside Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban on Tuesday, Kurz said that ""it's in all of our interests that we work together."" Orban says Europe's border-free travel zone can only work with ""radical"" external border protections like the fence he had constructed. He says: ""what's happening today is they want to open the external borders and close the internal ones, this is the exact opposite."""
330	7	"Liberia: Former NPFL Leader Convicted On 11 Counts of Immigration Fraud in the U.S.: Philadelphia — A jury has found Jucontee Thomas Woewiyu, former number two in the National Patriotic Front of Liberia, guilty on 11 counts of criminal immigration fraud. Report by Tecee Boley and Adrienne Tingba in Philadelphia and James Harding Giahyue in Monrovia At the end of the three-week trial, the jury of 8 men and 4 women took one day of deliberations to reach a verdict. They found him guilty on all counts related to persecution of Liberians during the war at the hands of the NPFL. On 5 counts related to his immigration interview and his failure to list the NPFL among his associations, the jury found him not guilty. One by one the charges were read to the court by the jury foreperson, and one after the other, the words repeated itself. 'Guilty. Guilty. Guilty. "" Woewiyu looked serious as the counts were read. He closed his eyes at one point and then looked down. His son, Jucontee the second, ran from the courtroom after the last count was read. Woewiyu embraced other family and supporters in the room. He had a brief smile for them. His other children were not there."
99	5	Syria is death trap for civilians, U.N. refugee chief warns: BRUSSELS (Reuters) - Civilians can no longer flee fighting and bombing raids in Syria because borders are so tightly controlled and neighboring countries are overwhelmed by refugees, creating some of the worst suffering in modern times, a top U. N. agency chief said. U. N. High Commissioner for Refugees Filippo Grandi adresses the media with German Chancellor Angela Merkel (not pictured) following their talks in Berlin, Germany, April 23, 2018. REUTERS/Fabrizio Bensch U. N. High Commissioner for Refugees Filippo Grandi was warning of a new disaster if the rebel-controlled Syrian city of Idlib was the next target of the Syrian military. “The country is becoming a trap, in some places a death trap for civilians,” Grandi told Reuters during a donor conference for Syria. “There is an entire population out there that cannot bear its refugees anymore, that is suffering from one of the worse ordeals in modern history. ” The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, a British-based war monitor, said last month about 511,000 people had been killed in the war since it began in March 2011. Some 5. 5 million Syrians are living as refugees in Iraq, Jordan, Lebanon and Turkey, and now account for a quarter of Lebanon’s population.
44	6	"Greek soccer hero helps refugees win battle against boredom: SKARAMANGAS, Greece (AP) — Soccer fans of a certain age may still remember Antonis Nikopolidis for his resemblance to American actor George Clooney and as the goalkeeper who helped Greece become surprise European Champions in 2004. Now the country's national youth team coach, Nikopolidis is helping refugees stranded in Greece regain a sense of purpose. The soccer team he helped build, named Hope (Elpida in Greek), is made up of players who fled warzones in Syria, Yemen, Iraq and Afghanistan. Most of Hope's players live in Skaramangas, an industrial zone west of Athens where metal containers have been turned into shoebox-shaped homes. They compete in an amateur league on Sundays, facing teams made up of lawyers, telecom workers and accountants. Nikopolidis, a soft-spoken 46-year-old whose hair has turned silver in retirement, says team practices and matches provide a welcome distraction for young men facing uncertain futures in the European Union's slow-moving relocation program. ""We're helping people who are at a difficult moment in their lives,"" he said. ""They are guests in our country, and we are trying with this team to give them a few hours of happiness."" Soccer is the main source of entertainment for many of the 60,000 refugees and economic migrants living in camps around Greece while they wait for asylum applications to be processed and a possible move elsewhere in Europe."
100	3	ISIS Infiltrates the Rukban Refugee Camp at Jordan-Syria Border: AL RUKBAN REFUGEE CAMP — Some 80,000 people are trapped in a scrub land of hopelessness in a forgotten corner of the Middle East. Huddling in the wind, walled in by desert sandbanks, they have been driven there by war. Abandoned by governments, they are preyed on by the very ISIS gunmen and suicide bombers they fled their homelands to escape. NBC News was given unique access to the area where Rukban straddles a rocky, arid no man’s land along the border linking Syria and Jordan — an important American ally, and a key member of the U. S. -led coalition against ISIS. A map showing the location of the refugee camp on the Jordan-Syria border. Google Officially, it is located in a demilitarized zone. However, the pilot of the Jordanian military helicopter used during a recent NBC News visit wouldn’t fly over it for fear of being shot down by ISIS cells in the camp. Brig. Gen. Sami Kafawin, commander of Jordan's army in the area, told NBC News that militants there “have whole weapons systems … small arms, RPGs, anti-aircraft. ” He added: “They consider the camp a safe haven.
441	8	"Trump calls for stricter immigration policy after NYC attack: The Trump administration re-upped its call for tighter immigration restrictions Monday following an attempted bombing in New York City, in the passageway under 42nd Street connecting the subway stations at Times Square and the Port Authority Bus Terminal. The suspect in the Monday morning attack, Akayed Ullah, 27, was from Bangladesh and entered the country in February 2011 on an immigrant visa, CBS News confirmed. He became a legal permanent resident of the United States. Officials said Ullah detonated one low-tech explosive device that injured him and caused minor injuries to five other people within range of the blast. CBS News learned that Ullah claims he was acting in the name of the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS). He has no previous criminal record. ""Today's attempted mass murder attack in New York City -- the second terror attack in New York in the last two months -- once again highlights the urgent need for Congress to enact legislative reforms to protect the American people,"" Mr. Trump said in a statement released by the White House Monday. ""America should always stand firm against terrorism and extremism, ensuring that our great institutions can address all evil acts of terror,"" his statement reads."
132	7	How the original US-Mexico border markers led to decades of fear and antipathy: Before the fence, there were obelisks – 276 monuments marking the US-Mexico border that were erected after the Mexican-American war ended in 1848. In 2007, David Taylor, an Arizona-based artist and professor, set out to photograph them all – a task that lasted seven years and took him from the Texas, New Mexico and Chihuahua border to the Pacific Ocean, passing through cities and remote mountainous terrain. Forget the fence: these are the real markers of the US-Mexico border – in pictures Read more Taylor did this during an era of ever-growing militarisation as cartel-related violence soared and the US continued to ramp up its post-9/11 spending on border security, adding to political and cultural tensions mined by Donald Trump, who continues to demand the construction of the border wall he advocated during his successful presidential campaign. Taylor’s photographs capture topographic diversity across 690 miles and the forbidding infrastructure overshadowing iron and stone monuments typically spaced 2. 5-3. 5 miles apart. “They are a monument to conquest. We ripped off 55% of Mexico’s territory. And so our perception of them and Mexico’s perception of them was different for a long time. More and more of course, now, they’re seen as positively dignified compared to what’s going in adjacent to them.
429	7	New Bill Seeks Reform of Country's Immigration Detention System: A bill to reform the country's immigration detention system was introduced this week in the House of Representatives. The measure, the Dignity for Detained Immigrants Act, was introduced by Reps. Pramila Jayapal (D-Washington) and Adam Smith (D-Washington), and is co-sponsored by more than three dozen other members of Congress. “This bill is incredibly important for [Asian Pacific Islander] immigrants,” Jayapal told NBC News. “Detention and deportation is sometimes classified as a Latino problem and it’s just a misconception because increasingly we see APIs being detained across the country from just about every community.” Rep. Pramila Jayapal, D-Wash., speaks at a Congressional Tri-Caucus news conference on Capitol Hill in Washington, Wednesday, Sept. 27, 2017, on injustice and inequality in America. Andrew Harnik / AP The Dignity for Detained Immigrants Act would attempt to address standards and accountability for detention centers across the country, phase out private detention centers over a three-year period, have detention facilities be managed by the Department of Homeland Security (DHS), and reduce the number of people in detention centers, Jayapal said. More than three dozen civil society organizations have thrown their support behind the bill, including the Southeast Asia Resource Action Center (SEARAC) and Colectiva Legal del Pueblo.
495	5	Held for Ransom in Animal Pens, Migrants Face Mass Kidnappings as U.S. and Mexico Ramp Up Enforcement: TAPACHULA, Mexico — It was Jan. 17 when Nevy de Zelada, a migrant from Guatemala, and her family were walking on the edge of a four-lane highway in southern Mexico in blistering, 100-degree heat. It was the first leg of their journey to the United States, where they hoped to seek asylum. Her 21-year-old son was pushing her paraplegic husband in his manual wheelchair, and the family’s beloved dog was nestled on her husband’s lap.
466	7	Mexico finds nearly 200 migrants hidden in cramped lorry: Nearly 200 undocumented migrants from Central America have been found hidden in a lorry without food or water in north-eastern Mexico. The men, women and children were found crammed into the bottom of the lorry in Tamaulipas state just south of the Texas border, officials said. They had travelled from Guatemala, Honduras and El Salvador and were bound for the US. Three people have been arrested on suspicion of human trafficking. Mexican police said the lorry was stopped at a checkpoint and scanners detected the people hidden inside. They had no food, water or proper ventilation. Twenty-four of the migrants were unaccompanied children, officials added. Last month more than 170 undocumented Central Americans were taken into custody in the states of Coahuila and Tamaulipas. Guatemala, Honduras and El Salvador are a major source of illegal migrants being smuggled into the US. President Donald Trump has vowed to crackdown on all immigration, legal and illegal, and is pressing ahead with controversial plans for a wall along the Mexican border.
387	5	How Liberals Got Lost on the Story of Missing Children at the Border: Some waved off this seeming contradiction, saying Mr. Trump’s other harsh immigration policies put his administration’s actions in a different context. And it is true that even when using similar tactics, President Trump and President Obama have expressed very different attitudes toward immigration and espoused different goals. Those arguments underscore the degree to which this controversy is animated as much by attitudes toward the president and the way he has made immigration a focus of partisan conflict as by specific policy preferences. Deadlock over immigration has meant that, for decades, politicians have turned to the same compromise: greater enforcement of immigration laws in exchange for more liberal policies. The Reagan administration’s amnesty for millions of undocumented immigrants, for instance, also increased security along the Mexican border and made it harder for undocumented immigrants to work. The Obama administration sharply increased deportations in his first term in the hope of building a case for comprehensive immigration reform. (That move did not pay off. ) Detained immigrant children have frequently been caught up in the enforcement side of that bargain. U. S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement and the Immigration and Naturalization Service before it have argued that immigration detention is an essential part of enforcement and deterrence, and have vigorously pursued detention of families and children throughout multiple presidential administrations.
463	7	Donald Trump to sign executive order on reform of H-1B visa system: US President Donald Trump (File Photo) US President Donald Trump (File Photo) US President Donald Trump is set to sign an executive order that would tighten the process of issuing the H-1B visas and seek a review of the system for creating an ‘entirely new structure’ for awarding these visas, the most sought-after by Indian IT firms and professionals. Trump is scheduled to travel to Milwaukee, Wisconsin, the home state of House of Representatives Speaker Paul Ryan, to sign the ‘Buy American, Hire American’ Executive Order. This was a transitional step aimed at achieving a more skills-based and merit-based immigration system. The executive order would be signed a day after the US Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) announced that it has completed the computerised draw of lots from the 199,000 petitions it received for the Congressional mandated 65,000 H-1B visas for the fiscal year 2018 beginning October 1 this year. The lottery was held for the 20,000 H-1B visas for those applicants having higher education from US educational institutions. Opposing the traditional lottery system for H-1B visas, a senior administration official told White House reporters that these visas were being used by companies to bring in foreign workers at a low wage rate and displace local workers.
124	8	US to review more recent asylum requests before older cases: LOS ANGELES (AP) — U.S. officials are taking steps to stem a surging backlog in asylum applications to prevent fraud and enable those genuinely fleeing persecution to settle here. U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services said Wednesday that it will start reviewing more recent applications first and push those already waiting a long time toward the back of the line. It aims to prevent immigrants from applying for asylum to bide their time and obtain work permits when they don't qualify for the protection. Immigration attorneys said the move was absurd and would force those already waiting three or four years to wait even longer for their cases to be heard. The agency has more than 300,000 pending asylum applications, compared with 16,000 in July 2012.
410	6	"Indian professionals hold rally to end green card backlog across US: Hundreds of Indian professionals held peaceful rallies across the US, demanding an end to the long and massive green card backlog by eliminating arbitrary per-country limit regulations. Indian-Americans, most of whom are highly skilled and come to the US mainly on H-1B work visas are the worst sufferers of the current immigration system which imposes a seven per cent per-country quota on allotment of green cards or permanent legal residency. As a result, the current wait period for Indian skilled immigrants for green card can be as long as 70 years. The rallies, to urge lawmakers to support to end the per-country limit on legal permanent residency was held over the weekend in Arkansas, Kentucky and Oregon. ""As awareness builds on this topic among the American public and lawmakers, they are joining the chorus asking for reform to address the discriminatory green card backlogs impacting employment based green card applicants from India,"" said Seattle-based GCReforms, a recently created organisation by Indian-Americans for this purpose. ""The attendees spoke in one voice and the message was clear – it is unfair to discriminate against applicants from one country due to arbitrary per-country limit regulations."
403	6	"Migrants accused of being part of Syrian militant group go on trial in Germany: Defendants Kamel T. H. J. (R) and Azad R. talk to their lawyers Martina Walter (2nd R) and Armin Beck as they arrive in a courtroom in Munich, southern Germany, March 30, 2017. REUTERS/Michael Dalder Defendant Azad R. shakes hands with his lawyer Armin Beck as he arrives in a courtroom in Munich, southern Germany, March 30, 2017. REUTERS/Michael Dalder MUNICH Two Syrian migrants who came to Germany as part of an influx of refugees in the summer of 2015 went on trial in Munich on Thursday accused of fighting in Syria as part of a militant group. More than 1 million migrants have arrived in Germany over the past two years and concerns about security and integration are widespread. Barbara Stockinger, a judge and spokeswoman for Munich's higher regional court, said 22-year-old Azad R. and 24-year-old Kamel T. H. J. were accused of fighting near Aleppo as part of the Islamist rebel group Ahrar al-Sham between August 2013 and April 2014. ""They armed themselves with kalashnikovs and fought against other rebel groups and the Syrian military government,"" she said. Stockinger said one of the men was injured during combat and headed to Turkey for medical treatment along with the other defendant."
262	2	The Necessary Immigration Debate: Moreover, the trust problem is not a simple matter of racist natives mistrusting foreigners, since social trust is often weakest among minorities — which is one reason why the most diverse generation in American history, the millennials, is also the least trusting. So you can see the political effects of distrust even if you ignore the Trump Republicans entirely: It’s one reason why campus politics are so toxic, why Democrats struggle to keep their diverse coalition politically engaged, and why the Bernie-Hillary contest produced so many cries of racism and sexism. Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Sign Up for the Opinion Today Newsletter Every weekday, get thought-provoking commentary from Op-Ed columnists, the Times editorial board and contributing writers from around the world. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters. Then linked to these ethno-cultural tensions are the tensions of class, where mass immigration favors stratification and elite self-segregation.
163	4	Migrant rescue boat arrives in Spain after rejection by Italy and Malta: Migrants are seen on the ship Lifeline while the Malta Armed Forces arrive to send aid, near Malta in international waters June 23, 2018 in this still image taken from a video obtained from social media. — Picture by Mission Lifeline via Reuters MADRID, July 4 — A humanitarian rescue boat carrying 60 migrants rescued off Libya docked in Barcelona today after being turned away by Malta and Italy, in the latest example of European divisions on immigration. Spain’s new Socialist prime minister, Pedro Sanchez, had offered for the second time in a month to take in migrants rejected by Italy and Malta, which were both closer. Irregular immigration across the Mediterranean has fallen dramatically, with about 45,000 people making it to Europe across the sea this year compared to over a million in 2015, but politically it has become ever more divisive. Last week, European Union states agreed to tighten their external borders and spend more in the Middle East and North Africa to bring down the number of migrants and to set up new centres to handle new arrivals. In a video tweeted by a crew member, men, women and children sang and cheered as the rescue ship Open Arms, operated by the Spanish charity ProActiva Open Arms, arrived in Barcelona’s busy port to dock alongside cruise and cargo ships.
433	5	"US immigration agents crack down on 'sanctuary state' California: US immigration officials said Friday they raided 77 California businesses this week as operations intensify in the state, whose own authorities are defying President Donald Trump's hard line on immigration by not cooperating with federal enforcement agents. The raids took place in cities including San Francisco, Sacramento and San Jose in the north of California -- a ""sanctuary state"" where, since January 1, law enforcement has been mostly prohibited from working with federal officials seeking to arrest undocumented immigrants. ""The actions taken this week reflect . stepped-up efforts to enforce the laws that prohibit businesses from hiring illegal workers,"" with a focus on ""protecting jobs for US citizens and others who are lawfully employed,"" US Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) said in a statement. In 2017, the government carried out 1,360 similar raids and arrested more than 300 people -- with businesses paying out over $100 million in restitution and fines, ICE said. ""It's put people in a lot of panic,"" Mariela Garcia, with San Jose-based charity Sacred Heart Community Service, told the local Mercury News. ""We have people who are quitting their jobs. ""US immigration authorities also recently adopted a policy that allows officials to enter courtrooms to arrest undocumented immigrants."
406	9	"Mexico: 300 migrants found in dangerously cramped trucks: MEXICO CITY — Mexican authorities say they have rescued 300 Central American migrants being transported in dangerous conditions in multiple tractor-trailers. A statement from the National Immigration Institute says two trucks were stopped at a checkpoint early Saturday in the northern border state of Tamaulipas, across from Texas. Scanners detected people inside, and 198 migrants from Guatemala, Honduras and El Salvador were found packed in without proper ventilation and with practically no space to move. A separate statement describes a similar discovery the previous day in the Gulf coast state of Veracruz. It said a truck was found carrying 102 Central Americans who ""displayed signs of dehydration and suffocation"" and whose lives were at risk."
462	8	Immigrant protected under Obama’s ‘Dreamer’ program is detained: US immigration officials have detained a 23-year-old man from Washington state, who was authorized to remain in the country under a program established by the Obama administration. The man, Daniel Ramirez Medina, has twice been granted deferred action and employment authorization under the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, or DACA, his lawyers said. The program, announced in 2012, is meant to temporarily shield qualified individuals from deportation. The case raises questions about what it could mean for Dreamers, undocumented immigrants who were brought to the United States as children. Ramirez came to the US from Mexico when he was 7 years old and became a DACA recipient in 2014 and renewed in 2016, according to court papers filed by his attorneys. Immigration rights groups say they believe this may be the first time a Dreamer has been arrested without cause. Ramirez’s lawyers have filed suit in federal court saying their client is being unlawfully held by US Immigration and Customs Enforcement officials. “The federal government may not arbitrarily or capriciously deprive DACA recipients of these benefits, as they have here with Mr. Ramirez,” his lawyers wrote in briefs filed in court. A status conference is scheduled at the US District Court in Washington state on Friday.
156	8	Mexican immigrant covered by Obama program arrested: U.S. authorities arrested an immigrant from Mexico who was brought to the United States illegally as a child and later given a work permit during the Obama administration, Reuters reported on Tuesday. Daniel Ramirez Medina, a 23-year-old with no criminal record, was taken into custody last week at his father's home in Seattle by U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement officers, according to the report. Ramirez was granted temporary permission to live and work legally in the United States under a program called the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, or DACA, established in 2012 by Democratic President Obama, according to a court filing. His arrest is believed to be the first detention of its kind under President Donald Trump.
117	7	"Nigerian LGBTQ Activist Granted Asylum in UK After 13-Year Legal Battle: LONDON - A Nigerian LGBTQ activist was granted asylum in Britain after a 13-year legal battle to prove her sexual orientation, a drawn-out process that rights groups called a ""miscarriage of justice."" Aderonke Apata, 50, who was given asylum last Thursday, had been trying to remain in Britain for more than a decade, but her case was refused several times after a judge ruled she was pretending to be a lesbian. ""I'm extremely overwhelmed with joy and gladness to know that now I'm safe and can live freely as a human being,"" Apata said in a statement on her Facebook page. ""As you rejoice with me for being safe, kindly remember that there are many people still in the same position that I was in for over 13 years,"" said Apata, who founded African LGBTQ charity African Rainbow Family. Kenyan gay and lesbian organizations demonstrate outside the Nigerian High Commission in Nairobi on February 7, 2014. Simon Maina / AFP/Getty Images African countries have some of the most prohibitive laws against homosexuality in the world: Same-sex relationships are a crime across much of the continent and can lead to imprisonment or the death penalty."
380	1	CRAZY Invention Made To Protect Women From Migrant Attacks, Hits The Market - ‘Safe Shorts’: CRAZY Invention Made To Protect Women From Migrant Attacks, Hits The Market – ‘Safe Shorts’ Seriously? You think a modern take on a chastity belt is going to stop Islamic rapists? I sincerely doubt it. In Germany, Sandra Seilz has invented “Safe Shorts.” She came up with the idea after being attacked by three drunken men while jogging in the woods. Any bets on if these ‘men’ were Islamic refugees? Any further bets that she was gang-raped? The shorts have a lock, protective shield and an alarm. Cables wrap around both legs that are supposedly hard to cut. This woman believes the alarm would scare off attackers. Probably not. As for the cables, they will get inventive at cutting them and they don’t give a crap about hurting the woman they are attached to. Frankly, if they can’t get what they want, they’ll probably kill the woman and behead her. I doubt that her “Safe Shorts” will protect her from that fate. If Germany would not let in unvetted refugees, most of this would not be happening. Safe words, safe bracelets and safe shorts are not going to stop a rapist folks.
67	3	Italian Teen Girl Killed and Chopped Into Pieces, Nigerian Migrant Arrested: A 29-year-old Nigerian migrant drug dealer has been arrested by police in the Italian commune of Pollenza after being accused of killing an 18-year-old girl and chopping her into pieces. The Nigerian, identified as 29-year-old Innocent Oseghale, was arrested earlier this week by Italian Carabinieri after the body of 18-year-old Pamela Mastropietro was found dismembered and dumped on a street with parts of her body stuffed in suitcases, Il Giornale reports. The Carabinieri in nearby Macerata were able to identify the Nigerian in connection with the murder after examining CCTV footage from the area. Investigators say that the 18-year-old had been living at a drug addiction recovery centre since October but had suddenly left the centre last Monday. Using a variety of sources, from CCTV footage to witness testimony, they were able to determine that the 29-year-old drug dealer was the last person to see the young woman alive. Forensic investigators from Rome were dispatched to the residence of the migrant, who was living in Italy on an expired visa. They were able to find clothes belonging to the victim, some of which were soaked with blood. Italy: Mafia and Migrant Gangs Running Heroin and Prostitution Rings Together https://t.
331	0	"Al Madrigal, Aparna Nancherla highlight Comedy Night for Immigrant Rights: Al Madrigal, Aparna Nancherla highlight Comedy Night for Immigrant Rights window. _taboola = window. _taboola || []; _taboola. push({ mode: 'thumbnails-c', container: 'taboola-interstitial-gallery-thumbnails-5', placement: 'Interstitial Gallery Thumbnails 5', target_type: 'mix' }); _taboola. push({flush: true}); Photo: Courtesy Showtime / Grove Street Productions/SHOWTIME Image 1 of / 5 Caption Close Image 1 of 5 Al Madrigal stars in the stand-up comedy special on Showtime ""Shrimpin' Ain't Easy. "" Al Madrigal stars in the stand-up comedy special on Showtime ""Shrimpin' Ain't Easy. "" Photo: Courtesy Showtime / Grove Street Productions/SHOWTIME Image 2 of 5 Comedian Aparna Nancherla performs at the Bill Graham Stage at Civic Center Plaza and the Bill Graham Civic Auditorium in San Francisco in 2017. Comedian Aparna Nancherla performs at the Bill Graham Stage at Civic Center Plaza and the Bill Graham Civic Auditorium in San Francisco in 2017. Photo: FilmMagic 2017 Image 3 of 5 AUSTIN, TX - MARCH 10: Actor Aparna Nancherla from the show 'Corporate' poses for a portrait in the Getty Images Portrait Studio Powered by Pizza Hut at the 2018 SXSW Film Festival on March 10, 2018 in Austin, Texas. less AUSTIN, TX - MARCH 10: Actor Aparna Nancherla from the show 'Corporate' poses for a portrait in the Getty Images Portrait Studio Powered by Pizza Hut at the 2018 SXSW Film Festival on March 10, 2018 in Austin, ."
393	7	"She's running the Boston Marathon to raise money for Syrian refugees: Story highlights She is the daughter of Syrian immigrants She's also from Michigan, home to large number of Syrian refugees (CNN) Rahaf Khatib has run six marathons in the last two years. On Monday, she'll run her seventh -- the Boston Marathon -- for Syrian refugees. The 33-year-old runner is the daughter of Syrian immigrants and from Michigan, a state with one of the highest number of Syrian refugees in the country. For her, raising money for refugees was a response to a ""deep need"" that she says she saw within her community. So far she's raised $16,000 ""Where I live, it's a crisis,"" Khatib explained, ""I personally as a stay-at-home mom couldn't contribute financially and I felt like I had to help. "" So, she decided to help by running."
358	6	"American border patrol agents stopping and boarding Canadian vessels: spokesman: Michael MacDonald, The Canadian Press GRAND MANAN, N. B. -- A little-known cross-border dispute that has simmered between Canada and the United States since the late 1700s is now approaching the boiling point. In the past two weeks, at least 10 Canadian fishing boats from New Brunswick have been intercepted by U. S. Border Patrol agents while fishing in the disputed waters around Machias Seal Island, a spokesman for the fishermen says. Laurence Cook, chairman of the advisory board for Lobster Fishing Area 38, said Wednesday that some Canadian vessels were boarded by American agents who asked about possible illegal immigrants. ""There's been a bit of a misunderstanding there somewhere,"" Cook said in an interview. ""They're in international waters, so border patrol shouldn't be boarding Canadian vessels. "" Machias Seal Island, which is about 19 kilometres southwest of Grand Manan Island and east of Maine, is in a disputed area known as the Grey Zone, where lobster fishermen from both Canada and the United States have long fished side by side. The small island is a flat, treeless piece of rock, which includes a large colony of puffins and a lighthouse that is manned by two Canadian lightkeepers year-round."
154	7	Refugees and fighters in Lebanon's Arsal head for Syria: Buses carrying thousands of Syrian refugees and rebel fighters have begun leaving the Lebanese territory of Arsal for government held areas of Syria, according to the Hezbollah-owned al-Manar TV station. The evacuation on Monday is part of a deal between rebels and Hezbollah, which ensures the safe passage of refugees and the fighters themselves. Previous deals have seen refugees head to rebel held territory but on Friday, the Lebanese security official overseeing the arrangements, General Abbas Ibrahim, said that a group of civilians would go to Assal al-Ward, an area just across the border from Arsal and held by the Syrian government. The fighters and their families will go to another part of Syria which he did not identify. A military media unit run by Hezbollah last week said they would go to the rebel-held town of al-Ruhaiba in the Eastern Qalamoun region, the Reuters news agency reported. Some 300 rebels from a group called Saraya Ahl al-Sham, which is loyal to the Free Syrian Army, as well as about 3,000 refugees, are included in the deal that followed an assault by the Lebanese Shia group on rebel positions in Arsal, last month.
22	6	US receives over 5,000 tips on H-1B visa fraud: Official: More than 5,000 complaints of H-1B visa fraud and abuse have been received by a federal agency on a dedicated email helpline that was launched by the Trump administration last year, an official said. “As of May 21, 2018, the USCIS has received over 5,000 tips to the dedicated H-1B email address,” Philip Smith, a Spokesperson for the US Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) told PTI. After US President Donald Trump Signed “Buy American, Hire American” executive order last year, Fraud Detection and National Security Directorate (FDNS) established email addresses dedicated to receiving information about suspected H-1B and H-2B fraud or abuse. FDNS leads USCIS’s efforts to combat immigration benefit fraud. The USCIS, however, did not provide any other details with regard to the nature of complaints, the companies involved and which country’s high-tech professionals were the victims of H-1B visa fraud and abuse. “Pursuant to the Buy American, Hire American Executive Order, FDNS has helped the agency investigate the H-1B program to protect American workers,” Smith said. Employers who abuse H-1B visa program may negatively affect US workers, decreasing wages and opportunities as they import more workers from abroad, it said.
474	7	Immigration principles could create problems for DACA plan: WASHINGTON (AP) — The Trump administration is finalizing the details of a set of immigration principles that could upend efforts to come up with a permanent fix for the status of young immigrants who came to the country illegally as children. The principles, according to people familiar with ongoing discussions, were expected to include elements of proposed legislation that would dramatically reduce legal immigration rates. Also to be pursued was an overhaul of the green card system to prevent extended family members, including siblings and adult children, from joining permanent residents in the U. S. The White House was expected to endorse principles of the Davis-Oliver bill, which aims to give local law enforcement officials the power to enforce immigration laws and allow states to write their own immigration legislation. The White House was also expected to call for billions of dollars in funding for border security, more immigrant detention beds and immigration judges. It remained unclear whether the principles, which were expected to be announced in the coming days, would serve as a broad immigration wish-list or specific demands the White House expected in exchange for signing legislation for the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, or DACA.
177	9	"China is planning to build 5 camps for North Korean refugees: China is planning to build five camps that could accommodate thousands of North Korean refugees, The New York Times reported Monday. According to The Times, a leaked document from state-run China Mobile that appeared on the microblogging site Weibo, said the telecommunications company was contacted to check for ""viable internet service"" at the five sites in the northeast border province of Jilin. “Because the situation on the China-North Korea border has intensified lately, Changbai County government plans to set up five refugee sites in Changbai,” the document reportedly stated. When questioned by The Times, a spokesperson for China's foreign ministry said they were not aware of reports about the refugee camps, but did not deny the plans to build them. Jilin has a large border with North Korea and is close to the nuclear-test site North Korean defectors often escape to China because of the countries' large shared border. Jilin province alone has a 200 kilometer (124 mile) border with North Korea and most of it is split by the narrow Tumen River, which is shallow enough to wade across in summer or walk on when frozen in winter. During North Korea's great famine of the 1990s, up to 300,000 North Koreans were estimated to have fled to China, most of them crossing the Tumen River."
108	7	"Dems divided on when to fight over fate of young immigrants: WASHINGTON (AP) — For Illinois Rep. Luis Gutierrez, a passionate, liberal Democrat of Puerto Rican descent, there is no more important issue in the year-end budget showdown than protecting from deportation hundreds of thousands of immigrants who came to the U.S. illegally as children — and who have only known America as their home. The fate of these ""Dreamers,"" as they are commonly known, is one of the trickiest issues to resolve as the White House and Congress seek to avert a Christmas government shutdown that nobody says they want. House Democrats, and their leader, Nancy Pelosi, insist that the Dreamers be dealt with as part of a broader package that combines unfinished legislative business, including military spending, disaster aid and low-cost health care for children. ""You want a bipartisan budget and you want my vote? Then make it an American budget, one that includes a pathway to freedom for our Dreamers,"" Gutierrez said. ""It's the right thing to do."" Top Senate Democrat Chuck Schumer cares about Dreamers, too, but he isn't playing hardball over immigration. At the top of his list of political concerns are the re-election bids next year of 10 Senate Democrats running in states that President Donald Trump won in 2016."
53	3	WATCH: Donald Trump boasts that Turkey attack proves him right on border wall: President-Elect Donald Trump held a New Year’s Eve party at his Mar-a-Lago estate in Florida where he gave a speech about his plans for the White House as he prepares to be sworn in on Jan. 20. A video obtained by the Palm Beach Daily News shows Trump boasting of his plans to build a border wall along the U. S. -Mexico border. He suggested that there is a need for the wall, especially after a club in Istanbul, Turkey was attacked by an armed gunman during New Year celebrations. In his speech, Trump said, “We’re going to have strong borders so that when people come into the country, they’re going to come into the country legally. This is the way we want it. ” “We will build a wall, you know that. We will build a wall,” he said to a cheering crowd. “And speaking of walls,” he continued, “In Turkey tonight — has anybody heard? ” “Big disaster took place in Turkey tonight,” he said. “Many, many, many people killed … It’s a horror show. So we’re going to get things running properly. ” Watch his remarks below via MSNBC.
123	7	At least 7 Palestinians wounded in West Bank and Gaza border clashes: At least seven Palestinians were wounded in clashes that broke out in the West Bank and near the Gaza border. More than one thousands Palestinians participated in the violent protests. There were no casualties among Israeli security forces.
346	10	UN report: Migrants sending billions more home than in 2007: A new U. N. report says migrants are sending home billions of dollars more than they did a decade ago which is helping lift their families out of poverty — and it says the rate of growth in remittances is almost double the increase in migration. The report commissioned by the International Fund for Agricultural Development and released Wednesday says that over the period from 2007 to 2016 remittances increased by 51 per cent while migration rose by 28 per cent and population in the home countries of migrants grew by 13 per cent .
202	6	Law allows Trump to strip visas from countries who won't take back deported citizens: Even if President Trump can’t convince the courts to approve his extreme vetting executive order, he may have another tool at his disposal that would allow him to strip visas from some of the seven countries he’s trying to target, crackdown supporters say. A federal law says the government can stop issuing visas to countries that are deemed “uncooperative” because they refuse to take back their citizens when the U. S. tries to deport them. At least five of the seven countries Mr. Trump is targeting — Iran, Iraq, Libya, Somalia and Sudan — are already on that list, according to new data obtained by the Immigration Reform Law Institute. All Mr. Trump would have to do is have his Homeland Security Department secretary issue an official notification about those countries, and the State Department would immediately halt visas, IRLA says. “Each of these countries either cannot or are unwilling to take back their citizens, all of whom have either violated our immigration laws or committed crimes against our own. For that reason alone, the Trump administration can and should put a complete halt to their visa privileges. In fact, the law requires it,” said Ian Smith, investigative associate at the IRLA.
151	6	"Judge grants Christian Indonesians in New Hampshire time to fight deportation: BOSTON — A federal judge on Thursday blocked the government from deporting dozens of Christian Indonesians who fear persecution if returned home, until they're given a chance to fight their removal. U. S. District Judge Patti Saris in Boston said 50 Indonesians living illegally in New Hampshire must be given time to reopen their immigration cases and argue that the conditions in their home country have changed. Demonstrators hold an ""Interfaith Prayer Vigil for Immigrant Justice"" outside the federal building, where ethnic Chinese Christians who fled Indonesia after wide scale rioting decades ago and overstayed their visas in the U. S. must check-in with ICE, in Manchester, New Hampshire, U. S. , October 13, 2017. BRIAN SNYDER / Reuters ""This opinion may literally save lives,"" said Lee Gelernt, an attorney for the Indonesians. ""As the court recognized . this country's laws do not permit the government to send people back to persecution or torture,"" said Gelernt, of the American Civil Liberties Union's Immigrants' Rights Project. The government had urged the judge to deny their bid for a preliminary injunction blocking their removal. The government argued that the court doesn't have jurisdiction over the matter and that the Indonesians failed to show that they would suffer irreparable harm if they aren't granted a reprieve."
198	6	"Liberia: Pres. Weah, You Have Much More to Pursue Than Citizenship for Non-Negroes: editorial President George Weah's State of the Nation Address last Monday calling for citizenship and land rights to be granted people of non-Negro descent has sparked dissenting views from many quarters, even among those who are so loyal to him. A lot of social media comments and those published in newspapers, including the Daily Observer, take serious exception to the President's advocacy to grant citizenship and the sale of land to people of non-Negro descent. As reported by our Editor, Omari Jackson, in our Wednesday edition, Jacob Y. Willie said, ""I don't agree with President Weah on that one and my reason is that because people of non-Negro descent traditionally have money, there will be too much disadvantage over Liberians. "" Like Willie, many other views suggest that granting citizenship to non-Negroes will be too much of a disadvantage to the poverty-stricken Liberians because those of non-Negro descent in Liberia already have complete control over the Liberian economy and have the potential to purchase as much land as possible, meaning the whole country. This, according to the comments, has the propensity to deny the ordinary poor Liberians of farmland, thus leading them to deeper poverty and depression."
34	8	More visas issued amid Maryland crab industry labor shortage: BALTIMORE (AP)- A Maryland congressman says federal immigrant officials have agreed to approve 15,000 more seasonal guest worker visas. The announcement Thursday from U. S. Rep. Andy Harris came amid reports that Maryland's crab industry is suffering a labor shortage. Nearly half of Maryland crab workers were left without laborers to pick crab meat after their mostly Mexican workforce failed to get H-2B visas. The H-2B visa program is for seasonal workers in non-agricultural jobs. Crab processors say what share they get of the additional visas still won't be enough. U. S. Citizenship and Immigration Services wouldn't confirm the approval to the Sun Thursday. But Harris says he's working with the Trump administration to either raise the cap or allow Maryland's seafood business workers to get visas through another program.
476	1	Call California law enforcement: Don’t enable Trump’s racist deportation force: Will you make a call to California law enforcement officials who recently met with Attorney General Jeff Sessions to discuss federal immigration enforcement? Tell them not to legitimize Trump’s racist anti-immigrant agenda and refuse to be a part of his deportation machine. You will be connected to 7 California law enforcement officials. Press * to move on to the next call.
300	8	"BREXIT BORDER MADNESS: Rees-Mogg urges UK to follow Swiss model after Daily Express probe: Mr Rees-Mogg issued a rallying cry after the Daily Express saw at first hand how the Swiss manage to avoid a hard border by using technology and assessing risk. Surrounded by EU member states, its borders with Germany, France, Italy and Austria run smoothly despite it remaining resolutely outside the customs union. This, he said, was a prime example of how the EU is capable of resolving complex border issues when it wants to. Mr Rees-Mogg said: “As the Daily Express reports the Swiss border is extremely effective. The system has been running for years so it would be possible to have something even more efficient between the UK and the EU. "" The Swiss model is an example of what can be achieved if the political will is there Jacob Rees-Mogg “There is no need for a hard border in Northern Ireland, or for controls to be at the border, they can all be arranged remotely. “If the bureaucrats in Zurich can find a solution to the border I am sure the mandarins of Whitehall can do even better. “The Swiss model is an example of what can be achieved if the political will is there."
334	10	Police find 17 immigrants locked inside a truck in Texas: Police in Texas say 17 people were found locked inside a tractor-trailer parked outside a gas station. Edinburg Assistant Police Chief Oscar Trevino tells KGBT-TV the immigrants from several different countries may have been locked inside the 18-wheeler for at least eight hours before being freed by officers Sunday morning. The migrants were found in the back of the truck in Edinburg, Texas, at the Flying J truck stop which is just over the border from Mexico. The migrants were found in the back of a tractor trailer parked outside the Flying J Convenience Store in Edinburg, Texas after worried relatives contacted the authorities Two people have been arrested although none of the migrants required medical treatment despite being stuck in the back of the overheating truck which just crossed the border, file pic None of the people inside the tractor-trailer required medical attention. Trevino says two people believed to be in charge of the rig were detained. The television station reports Edinburg police responded after getting an anonymous call from someone saying a relative was trapped inside the tractor-trailer with several others. A spokeswoman for U. S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement says the agency is investigating the case.
146	4	Woman with migrant 'hidden in suitcase' arrested by Spanish border control: Border control agents from Spain arrested a Moroccan woman after she tried entering the country with a migrant hidden in her suitcase. The 22-year-old had tried entering the Spanish North African enclave of Ceuta with case on December 30. But authorities pulled her aside after noticing the woman acting suspiciously. After stopping her, officers asked her to open the suitcase and discovered a young male inside. The immigrant, a 19-year-old from Gabon, was treated by medics who feared he had suffered from a shortage of oxygen while in the suitcase.
235	7	Hawaii files motion seeking to challenge third travel ban: HONOLULU — Lawyers representing Hawaii in the state's long-running fight against Trump administration travel bans have filed a motion asking a judge to let them challenge the latest version of the policy. Hawaii filed the motion Friday asking a federal judge for permission to file an amended lawsuit targeting the third travel ban. The latest travel ban removes Sudan from the list of affected countries and adds Chad and North Korea, along with several officials from the government of Venezuela. It's scheduled to take effect Oct. 18. State Attorney General Doug Chin said the new ban still discriminates on the basis of nationality, exceeds the president's legal authority and seeks to implement his Muslim ban.
383	3	First photos of thugs who brutally beat up teenage asylum seeker released by police: Police have released photos of some of the thugs who brutally beat up an asylum seeker on the Shrublands estate. The mob attack in which Reker Ahmed was left with injuries which doctors feared might cause him to die shocked the nation. After 17 people were arrested, 14 were charged and following two trials seven have either pleaded guilty or been found guilty of offences in relation to the shocking episode of violence. The second trial concluded yesterday (Thursday) with George Jeffrey, 21, of Uvedale Close, New Addington, and Ben Harman, 21, of Akabusi Close, Addiscombe, both being found guilty of two counts of violent disorder. Their trial, which lasted three weeks, heard how Harman jumped out of his car to join in with the first of two attacks on Mr Ahmed, and kicked him while he lay on the floor. Prosecutor Ben Holt said Harman's car was “offering light to the attackers, like floodlights at a football pitch”. Harman, who on the night in question was wearing a baseball hat and carrying a “man bag”, then followed the group who chased 17-year-old Mr Ahmed and beat him in the second wave of the assault.
142	0	Thousands To Take Citizenship Oath In Los Angeles Ceremony: Best Pizza In Orange County By NeighborhoodOrange County pizza connoisseurs have a variety of options when seeking out a pie; from New York style to traditional Italian roots to create-your-own and unique twists on the classic dish, there is truly something for everyone.
141	5	"Amnesty accuses EU of complicity in Libya migrant abuse: BRUSSELS (AP) — European Union countries are complicit in the abuse of migrants held in Libya, Amnesty International said in a report released Tuesday that accused the EU of turning a blind eye to allegedly brutal tactics of the Libyan coast guard and dangerous detention facilities. The human rights group also alleged that the Libyan coast guard accepted kickbacks from smugglers to let migrant boats leave for Europe. Amnesty said it had video and other documentary evidence that a boat donated by Italy was involved in an interception operation in which up to 50 people drowned. ""European governments have not just been fully aware of these abuses,"" Amnesty Europe Director John Dalhuisen said. ""By actively supporting the Libyan authorities in stopping sea crossings and containing people in Libya, they are complicit in these crimes."" Overwhelmed by the arrival of more than 1 million migrants in 2015, the EU has worked with Libya and its neighbors to cut off the main migration route from Africa to Europe. Its strategy has including training and equipping Libya's coast guard to stop boats trying to make the dangerous Mediterranean Sea crossing. The moves have trapped an estimated 20,000 migrants in Libya, where detention facilities are overcrowded and unsanitary, Amnesty International said."
248	5	"Government must resume DACA and accept new applications, federal judge rules: In the biggest setback yet for the Trump administration in its decision to end a program that protects undocumented young adults from deportation, a federal judge ruled Tuesday that the government must resume accepting new applications. Judge John D. Bates of U. S. District Court for the District of Columbia said that the government's decision to end the program, Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, or DACA, was predicated on the ""virtually unexplained"" grounds that the program is ""unlawful. "" The judge stayed his decision for 90 days, giving the Department of Homeland Security the opportunity to better explain its reasoning for canceling the program. The department, the judge wrote in his decision, ""must accept and process new as well as renewal DACA applications. "" DACA was officially rescinded by the government in March but the program has continued to accept renewals after previous court orders. About 700,000 unauthorized immigrants, the majority of them brought to the United States as children, had signed up for the Obama-era program since it was created in 2012. Advocates hailed the ruling, saying it highlighted the failure of the administration to justify terminating the program. ""This decision verifies the Trump administration failed to prove the DACA program is illegal,"" said Ali Noorani, executive director of the National Immigration Forum, a Washington, D."
391	8	On St. Patrick’s Day, a look at how the Irish came to America with other waves of immigrants through the decades: St. Patrick’s Day is when about 39 percent of Americans say they celebrate their Irish heritage. More than 4. 5 million Irish immigrants arrived in the United States between 1820 and 1930. Here is a look at the many waves of immigrants coming to America over the decades. Irish immigration in the 1800s Coming to California The Irish were by far the largest group of immigrants until the Chinese began to arrive around the time of the Gold Rush in California. The influx of Chinese immigrants helped build the railroads and create a source of cheap labor in California from 1850 to 1880. By 1880 the Chinese were 10 percent of California’s population. In 1875, the federal government passed the Page Act, which was the first immigration law restricting the number of people coming from a region, in this case Asia. The intent of the law was to protect American workers from competition by slave-like workers forcibly brought from Asia. The Chinese Exclusion Act came in 1882, prohibiting Chinese naturalization and setting up deportation procedures for illegal Chinese. The Chinese Exclusion Act remained a law until it was repealed in 1943. In 1924, the first permanent immigration quota law established a quota of 150,000 immigrants.
187	2	Cruz: Revoke Citizenship of Americans Who Join ISIS: Cruz: Revoke Citizenship of Americans Who Join ISIS I simply adore Ted Cruz. He’s absolutely right here. If an American citizen tries to join ISIS or any other terrorist group, they should have their citizenship stripped. That means for those who go overseas to wage Jihad, the door will no longer be open to them to return here. And before the left starts screeching over this, Hillary Clinton supported very similar legislation. Cruz supports President’s Trump embattled plan to temporarily ban refugees from seven Middle Eastern countries. So do I. He just thinks it only addresses half the problem and he has a point. We don’t want trained, battle hardened Jihadists returning to the US after going on a killing spree. When previous versions of this bill were submitted, some civil libertarians threw a fit. They claim it would give the federal government expanded powers to revoke citizenship without due process. That’s rich considering they never decried Obama’s extension of federal powers. Under Cruz’s bill, anyone who lost their citizenship over alleged terrorist ties would have 60 days to request a due process hearing to challenge the decision. “The awesome and horrible power of being able to take away the citizenship of an American citizen would be turned over to an unnamed bureaucrat,” claimed Christopher Anders, senior legislative counsel for the American Civil Liberties Union’s Washington legislative office.
485	6	Trump’s Pressure on Countries and International Organizations Erodes Protections for Asylum-Seekers: The text came from inside a Panamanian government outpost, set hours away from the country’s capital, on the edge of the Darien jungle. It had been written by a migrant who’d managed to smuggle a cellphone into the facility by hiding it in his shorts. He said authorities had detained him without providing him access to a lawyer or any means to communicate with relatives.
140	6	Merkel, under fire from left and right, defends German immigration plan: BERLIN (Reuters) - German Chancellor Angela Merkel defended on Wednesday a deal on tightening immigration controls from attacks directed by both her Social Democrat coalition partners and the far-right opposition. FILE PHOTO: German Chancellor Angela Merkel gives a statement after a meeting with Christian Social Union (CSU) Interior Minister Horst Seehofer at the CDU headquarters in Berlin, Germany, July 2, 2018. REUTERS/Hannibal Hanschke The left criticized Merkel’s plan, sealed at the weekend with her Bavarian conservative allies, as being too draconian while the anti-immigration Alternative for Germany (AfD) party called on Merkel to resign, denouncing it as too soft and vague. Migrant arrivals peaked in 2015 at more than a million people, many of them fleeing the Syrian war and therefore entitled to asylum, while others were trying to escape poverty. Numbers have since dropped sharply but Merkel told parliament that Germans had to be reassured. “Order must be brought to all forms of migration so people have the impression that law and order is being implemented,” she said to applause for her own lawmakers but jeers from the AfD. Merkel offered the chance for people seeking a better life, including Africans, to contribute to German society too.
48	5	"France Needs to Better Protect Maritime Borders Amid Migrant Inflow: MOSCOW (Sputnik) — According to the National Front member, the current socialist government has weakened the maritime border security, so faster delivery of new vessels is needed, as well as the deployment of new drones and planes. ""This situation is unbearable on an enormous territory of 11 million of square kilometers [approximately 4. 2 million square miles] and filled with considerable resources: the number of breaches is growing, the drug trafficking is flourishing, and illegal immigration is speeding up. The sovereignty of France has to be reaffirmed urgently! "" Philippot said in a statement. Philippot also stressed the importance of increasing the country's defense budget. In December 2016, Chief of Staff of the French Armed Forces Gen. Pierre de Villiers urged French government to increase military spending to the 2 percent of GDP, as required by NATO. French President Francois Hollande said later in December that France had the necessary resources to boost its military expenditure. According to NATO July 2016 figures, France was spending 1. 78 percent of its GDP on defense."
10	6	"For Syrian Refugees In Turkey, A Long Road To Regular Employment: In a neighborhood of Istanbul that's plastered with Arabic signs, a Syrian refugee whips up his specialty — avocado cream smoothies — at the small, colorful cafe where he works. Majd al-Hassan has been in Turkey for two years, but has yet to learn much Turkish. He doesn't need to. This area is filled with fellow Syrians. He's paid in cash, under the table, and has yet to really integrate into Turkish society, he acknowledges. ""We've got Syrian supermarkets, Syrian restaurants — just like back home,"" says Hassan, 26. ""I haven't even applied for a Turkish ID card. If peace comes to Syria, I'll go home tomorrow."" Nearby, a resident who describes herself as one of the last Turks living on this street near Istanbul's Fatih Mosque says she no longer recognizes her neighborhood. ""Before, this area was only Turkish people, mostly. But now, here, there, everywhere, it's all Syrian people,"" says Tulay Suleyman, who was born here. ""Some Turkish people, they don't like these [new] people. Their culture is a little bit different than ours. [They're] mostly ignorant people — homeless people, low-class."" Xenophobia has flared with the arrival of migrants in parts of Europe."
279	5	Campaign to Drive Out Migrants Slams Beijing’s Best and Brightest: BEIJING — With coding skills, a foreign degree, fluent English and an apartment barely big enough for his espresso maker and two cats, Si Ruomu thought he was the kind of go-getting young tech worker that Beijing needs to thrive in the 21st century. That was before the police arrived at his apartment building and ordered him and hundreds of others to vacate within 48 hours. Like most of his fellow tenants, Mr. Si had come from elsewhere in China to find work in the capital, which often treats migrants virtually as second-class citizens. “One minute you’re drinking espressos, the next you’re being evicted,” said Mr. Si, 28, a bespectacled programmer who grew up in northern China and studied computer science in New Zealand. “I’m starting to think whether people like me have a future in Beijing.” As Beijing has launched its most aggressive drive in decades to rid itself of unwanted migrants, the brunt of the crackdown has fallen on laborers from the countryside. But it has also hurt a different kind of migrant: educated and ambitious white-collar workers drawn to the city’s new economy of tech, finance and hospitality industries.
337	6	"Pope likens migrant holding centres to 'concentration camps': Pope Francis (R) waves from his car as he leaves after his visit at the Basilica of Saint Bartholomew on Tiber island in Rome, April 22, 2017. REUTERS/Alessandro Bianchi Pope Francis is greeted by a boy as he arrives to visit the Basilica of Saint Bartholomew on the Tiber island in Rome, April 22, 2017. REUTERS/Alessandro Bianchi Pope Francis arrives to visit the Basilica of Saint Bartholomew on the Tiber island in Rome, April 22, 2017. REUTERS/Alessandro Bianchi Pope Francis leads a mass at the Basilica of Saint Bartholomew on Tiber island in Rome, April 22, 2017. REUTERS/Maurizio Brambatti/Pool Pope Francis (L) leads a mass at the Basilica of Saint Bartholomew on Tiber island in Rome, April 22, 2017. REUTERS/Maurizio Brambatti/Pool Pope Francis leads a mass at the Basilica of Saint Bartholomew on Tiber island in Rome, April 22, 2017. REUTERS/Maurizio Brambatti/Pool ROME Pope Francis urged governments on Saturday to get migrants and refugees out of holding centres, saying many had become ""concentration camps"". During a visit to a Rome basilica, where he met migrants, Francis told of his trip to a camp on the Greek island of Lesbos last year. He met a Muslim refugee from the Middle East there who told him how ""terrorists came to our country""."
303	9	Millions of empty homes, but migrants to Indian cities cannot rent them: MUMBAI, Feb 2 (Thomson Reuters Foundation) - Tens of thousands of people migrating to Indian cities each day cannot find adequate housing, as rental markets shrink despite millions of homes remaining vacant, government data shows. The share of rental housing in cities has fallen by nearly half over the past five decades, according to the government’s annual economic survey released this week. Rent control, unclear property rights, and a focus on building homes for ownership rather than renting are at the root of the problem, it said. “Policies related to housing need to recognise that India has an increasingly fluid population (and) that across the income spectrum, rental housing is an important foothold into a city for new arrivals,” the survey said. A quarter of India’s urban population lives in informal housing, including slums, due to the critical shortage of affordable accommodation, according to the social consultancy firm FSG in Mumbai. That number is likely to increase with migration from the countryside to cities, as people seek better job prospects. A government plan to provide housing for all by 2022 is meant to create 20 million new urban housing units and 30 million rural homes.
118	9	Transgender migrant dies while in US custody: ALBUQUERQUE, N.M. (AP) — Authorities are awaiting autopsy results to determine what caused the death of a transgender woman who was in the custody of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement. Federal authorities say the 33-year-old woman from Honduras died early Friday at an Albuquerque hospital, where she was admitted after showing symptoms of pneumonia, dehydration and complications associated with HIV. The woman was identified by activists as Roxana Hernandez. They say she was part of a caravan of Central American migrants that traveled to the U.S. border through Mexico. Federal authorities listed her name as Jeffry Hernandez and said she was first detained May 13 in San Diego. She was later transferred to El Paso, Texas, and then to a detention center in western New Mexico where she was housed in the transgender unit.
328	8	"Lebanon crisis overshadows EU aid for Syrian refugees: Perched on the side of a mountain some 50km from the Syrian border, St John's monastery in Lebanon is home to around a dozen hermits and priests. A printing press that published books in Arabic, the world's first, can still be found within its halls. The classes provided by the NGOs helps create social networks (Photo: Arie Kievit) Today, the monastery has become an educational refuge for Syrian children hoping for a future that was removed from them when the regime under Bashar al-Assad indiscriminately dropped barrel bombs on his own people. In one class of around a dozen children, a 10-year old girl calls out the letters of the alphabet in French. Some have never attended school before. Learning French is among many obstacles they face in an effort to insert them into a wider Lebanese public school system where they'll be segregated and most likely bullied. ""One of the main reasons why [Syrian refugee] children are out of school in Lebanon is language,"" said Poppy Alice Hardee, an area manager for the NGO, Terre des Hommes Italia. Public schools in Lebanon are taught in English and in French, depending on the area, which puts Syrians at an immediate disadvantage."
54	7	Amnesty International accuses EU of abetting migrant rights violations in Libya: BRUSSELS (Reuters) - European governments are “complicit” in grave human rights violations in Libya through their support for authorities there that often work with people smugglers and torture refugees and migrants, Amnesty International said on Tuesday. Determined to cut African immigration across the Mediterranean, the governments, via the European Union, have provided support to Libya, trained its coastguard and spent millions of euros through U. N. agencies to improve conditions in detention camps where Libya puts the migrants. The advocacy group said up to 20,000 people were now held in these centers and subject to “torture, forced labor, extortion, and unlawful killings”, adding to similar allegations made by other rights organizations over the past months. “European governments have not just been fully aware of these abuses; by actively supporting the Libyan authorities in stopping sea crossings and containing people in Libya, they are complicit in these crimes,” John Dalhuisen, Amnesty International’s head for Europe, said. The European Union’s executive arm, the European Commission, was not immediately available for comment. Libya is the main gateway for migrants trying to cross to Europe by sea, though numbers have dropped sharply since July as Libyan factions and authorities have begun to block departures under pressure from Italy, the main landing point.
102	7	"UN urges swift aid to border refugees, lauds Jordan’s ‘exemplary efforts’: AMMAN — Despite limited resources, Jordan has been continuously enforcing ""exemplary efforts"" for the protection of the Syrians who have left their homes, the UN has said, urging stakeholders to provide further assistance to save refugees “trapped” at the border. In a statement released Monday, UN agencies in Jordan voiced concern over “the safety and security of thousands of Syrians near Jordan's northeastern border”, expressing readiness “to immediately provide protection and additional life-saving assistance as needed"", and continued support for the Jordanian authorities' efforts. An estimated number of 4,000 Syrians at Hadalat and 45,000 Syrians at Rukban — mainly women and children — remain stranded at Syria’s southern border with Jordan, the statement said. Due to air strikes that have been reported to be in the area over the last couple of days, distress and fear have been heightened amongst the population with the risk of escalated hostilities. No casualties or injuries have been reported, yet the area has been described to be “increasingly unsafe”, the international organisation said, adding that the scarcity of services available in the area in terms of food and healthcare has placed women and children in a situation that has been going from bad to worse."
459	4	Two militants arrested in Jammu and Kashmir's Baramulla, duo had travelled to Pakistan on valid visas for terror training: Two militants were reportedly arrested from Baramulla on Saturday in a joint operation by the Jammu and Kashmir Police, Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) and the army. News reports quoted the police as saying that they had gone to Pakistan on valid visas to obtain arms training there, according to a media report. 2 Pakistan trained terrorists arrested in Baramulla by Police, Army and CRPF. They had gone to Pakistan on valid Pakistani visa to obtain arms training there for undertaking terrorist activities in the valley: Baramulla Police — ANI (@ANI) February 3, 2018 The arrested terrorists were given Pakistani visas by Pakistan High Commission in New Delhi. It’s pertinent to mention that for past couple of years police has unearthed several such modules who lure young boys to Pakistan to get trained and join militancy: Baramulla Police — ANI (@ANI) February 3, 2018 In the past couple of years, the police has successfully unearthed several modules which lure young boys to cross over to Pakistan for training, India TV quoted the Baramulla police as saying. In January, in a joint operation by Jammu and Kashmir Police and the Indian Army, two militants and nine overground workers (OGWs) were arrested from Sopore.
286	6	New York Today: A Culinary School for Refugees: After college, she would often volunteer at a homeless shelter before heading off to work at the Human Rights Campaign in Washington. “I was really struck by this idea of us just handing over the food and thought, ‘What would it look like to do this differently?’ And then I would go to my office and work with refugees and asylees and think, ‘Huh, we can do something different, right now.’” Ms. Brodie had no background in the food industry aside from a summer spent scooping ice cream as a teenager, so she enrolled at the Institute of Culinary Education in Lower Manhattan. She also attended a food business boot camp in Harlem and began picking up shifts at restaurants. After discussing the idea with friends, meeting with philanthropists and sending “millions of emails,” she set up her classroom cafe in June. Nearly half of her students received job offers before they had completed the program. “Which is a great position to be in,” she said. “Suddenly you’re going from having no choices to having choices, and being asked, ‘How do you put down roots here?’ Which is a new conversation for a lot of our students.” 
185	4	Killings sow fear inside Rohingya refugee camps in Bangladesh: COX’S BAZAR/DHAKA, Bangladesh (Reuters) - Bangladesh is deploying thousands of extra police to Rohingya refugee camps in the south, officials said, after a series of mostly unexplained killings that have sown fear among hundreds of thousands of people who have fled from neighboring Myanmar. FILE PHOTO: Rohingya refugees line up for daily essentials distribution at Balukhali camp, near Cox's Bazar, Bangladesh January 15, 2018. REUTERS/Tyrone Siu/File Photo Since August, when a military crackdown in Myanmar forced many of the Muslim minority to cross the border into Bangladesh and seek shelter in the crowded camps, 19 people, some of them community leaders, have been killed. Police have made a number of arrests in connection with some of the killings, but say the motives often remain unclear. Conducted after dark and often by groups of men wielding pistols, knives, and sticks, the killings have sent a chill through the camps, which are guarded by the Bangladesh army during the day but manned by fewer police officers at night. A. K. M. Iqbal Hossain, police superintendent of the coastal town of Cox’s Bazar under whose jurisdiction the camps fall, said a special force of roughly 2,400 men was being formed to guard the refugees.
394	5	These DC Restaurants Are Closing For 'A Day Without Immigrants' Strike on Thursday: everal restaurants are planning to close Thursday in solidarity with their Latino employees who are participating in a “Day Without Immigrants” strike. The protest, aimed at showing the impact of the immigrant community and protesting Donald Trump‘s policies, has been gaining substantial traction through word of mouth in recent days. Many restaurants are trying to figure out ways to continue operating Thursday without their immigrant-heavy staffs, and some vendors who rely on immigrant workers and drivers have warned restaurants to expect possible delivery delays. Take a look below at the restaurants that are closing all or parts of their businesses because of the strike. Know of other closures? Email me at jsidman@washingtonian.com, and I’ll continue to update this list. Jaleo (DC, Crystal City, and Bethesda), Oyamel, Zaytinya Chef José Andrés is closing five of his local restaurants “in support of our people,” he writes on Twitter with the hashtag #ImmigrantsFeedAmerica. Pizzeria Paradiso (Georgetown and Old Town Alexandria) Chef Ruth Gresser will close two of her three locations. The Dupont outpost will remain open, and Gresser will personally be working in the kitchen. Brookland Pint, Meridian Pint, Smoke & Barrel These three bars from restaurateur John Andrade will remain open, but their kitchens will be closed. Patrons are welcome to bring their own food. “As a Latino business owner I stand in solidarity with all of my immigrant staff,” Andrade explains on Facebook.
422	7	Migrant caravan reaches U.S. border despite Trump threats: TIJUANA, Mexico — Hundreds of Central American migrants traveling through Mexico in a caravan began arriving in the border city Tuesday, with many still intent on seeking asylum despite fresh threats of prosecution and deportation from the Trump administration. Numerous tents were set up at the Movimiento Juventud 2000 shelter in Tijuana, just south of California, to house the migrants — who have said they are fleeing violence and persecution in their home countries — before they attempt to surrender at the U.S. Port of Entry. About 300 migrants are expected to sleep in the shelter before taking the last step of attempting to cross the border and possibly request asylum. It's the largest number of migrants taking part in the caravan to reach the border — about 50 members arrived late last week, Reuters reported. María, a 17-year-old from Honduras who arrived Monday with her one-year-old son, José Roberto, sought asylum at the U.S. border immediately. She was turned away, she said, and plans to try again. A Honduran asylum seeker, Maria, 17, with her son Jose Roberto in a Tijuana shelter near the U.S.-Mexico border.
359	6	Border wall, Hudson River project hold up spending bill | The Herald: FILE - In this Dec. 22, 2017, file photo, the U. S. Capitol in the early morning in Washington. Top-level Capitol Hill talks on a massive $1. 3 trillion catchall spending bill are reaching a critical stage as negotiators confront immigration issues, abortion-related controversies, and a battle over a massive rail project that pits President Donald Trump against his most powerful Democratic adversary. J.
231	7	UNHCR: Overcrowded Greek refugee camps ill-prepared for winter: Greece must speed up winter preparations at refugee camps on islands in the Aegean Sea where there has been a sharp rise in arrivals, the United Nations refugee agency said on Friday. Nearly 5,000 refugees, mostly Syrian or Iraqi families, crossed from Turkey in September – a quarter of all arrivals this year, UNHCR data shows. While that is a fraction of the nearly 1 million who arrived in 2015 – due to a European Union deal with Turkey to block that route – four of the five island camps are hosting two or three times as many people as they were designed for. “UNHCR urges action on the islands to ease overcrowding, improve shelter, and stock and distribute appropriate and sufficient aid items,” said Philippe Leclerc, UNHCR representative in Greece. In the Moria camp on the island of Lesvos, one of the main entry points, more than 1,500 people are in makeshift shelters or tents without insulation, flooring or heating, UNHCR said. They include pregnant women, people with disabilities, and very young children. On nearby Samos, about 400 people are living in “very difficult” conditions and another 300, including families and lone children, are sleeping in tents in the woods due to a lack of space in the camp, UNHCR said.
436	6	Sea Watch migrant rescue plane blocked from flying by Maltese authorities: The sea rescue charity Sea Watch has said it has been blocked by the Maltese authorities from using its civil search aircraft Moonbird. The aircraft is operated by Sea-Watch and the Swiss Humanitarian Pilots Initiative (HPI) and supported by the Evangelical Church of Germany. Sea Watch said that with rescue ships impounded in Maltese ports, no search flights in the search and rescue area north of the Libyan coast were possible any more. The aircraft has already been involved in the rescue of 20,000 people. Moonbird commander Ruben Neugebauer said the Maltese authorities had told Sea Watch there was no permit for any type of search and rescue operations, earlier this week. “Reasons or a legal basis for the no-fly were not communicated,” he said. The Moonbird operated over a year almost daily from Malta, in cooperation with the Maltese authorities and the Italian Coast Guard, sometimes even under their explicit command, Sea Watch – a member of the International Maritime Rescue Federation – said. The Cirrus SR22 single-engine aircraft is equipped with special safety systems and is suited for use over the open sea. “The political leaders should be clear what this flight ban means: the people on the boats are not saved, but drown unseen,” said pilot and HPI founder Fabio Zgraggen.
133	8	German police arrest 3 in raids on migrant-smuggling ring: BERLIN (AP) — German police say they have arrested three suspects during raids against a group that is believed to have smuggled at least 160 migrants into Germany over recent months. Federal police spokesman Christian Meinhold said raids were staged in four German states Wednesday. Two suspects were arrested in Berlin and a third in Bad Muskau, on the Polish border, and seven properties searched. The suspects are believed to belong to a group that smuggled migrants from the Czech Republic and Poland, largely using trucks. The alleged smuggling took place since August and an investigation was launched in the fall. Germany saw around 186,000 asylum-seekers arrive last year. That's much lower than the previous two years, but officials say it's still too high and that's due in part to smugglers' activities.
50	9	Federal judge blocks Trump travel ban for Virginia residents: MCLEAN, VA. >> A federal judge has granted a preliminary injunction barring the Trump administration from implementing its travel ban in Virginia, adding another judicial ruling to those already in place challenging the ban’s constitutionality. The Monday ruling is significant from a legal standpoint because U. S. District Judge Leonie Brinkema found that an unconstitutional religious bias is at the heart of the travel ban, and therefore it violates First Amendment prohibitions on favoring one religion over another. She said the evidence introduced so far indicates that Virginia’s challenge to the ban will succeed once it proceeds to trial. A federal appeals court in California has already upheld a national temporary restraining order stopping the government from implementing the ban, which is directed at seven Muslim-majority countries. But the ruling by the 9th Circuit Court of Appeals was rooted more in due process grounds, said Virginia Attorney General Mark Herring, a Democrat who brought the lawsuit against Trump in Virginia. “Judge Brinkema’s ruling gets right to the heart of our First Amendment . claim,” Herring said in a conference call Monday night. In her 22-page ruling, Brinkema writes that Trump’s promises during the campaign to implement what came to be known as a “Muslim ban” provide evidence that the current executive order unconstitutionally targets Muslims.
225	6	Brexit news: Irish border could bring EU talks 'crashing down': GETTY Brexit news: The Irish border could bring down the entire exit negotiations Brexit ministers has come no closer to overcoming the EU divorce's most complex hurdle despite yesterday’s positive transition deal draft announcement. Yesterday David Davis and Michel Barnier said much progress had been made towards a transition deal but admitted “more work” needed to be done on Ireland. The island’s border will soon become the only land border between the EU and the UK but Prime Minister Theresa May and her Brexit ministers have been unable to explain how to balance this with an open border. Negotiators on all sides are agreed a hard border with physical infrastructure must be avoided to avoid a return to the violence and bloodshed which scarred Northern Ireland and parts of the Republic for decades during the Troubles. But if the UK - including Northern Ireland - leaves the single market and customs union, customs checks will be inevitable on goods passing between the north and south of the island. Yesterday Jonathan Powell, a former Northern Ireland negotiator and the UK government’s former chief of staff, issued a stark warning to Mrs May. He said Mrs May had “boxed herself in” and left no room for manoeuvre on the most complex and important part of Brexit negotiations.
112	5	"20 civilians killed in 'Palestinian refugee camp' in Syria: Around 20 civilians have been killed in week-long regime airstrikes on Yarmouk, a neighborhood of Damascus referred to as a ""Palestinian refugee camp"", the Turkish Anadolu news agency reported on Tuesday. Several people were injured in the attacks, local sources told the news agency on condition of anonymity due to security concerns."
263	6	Cold Claims Immigrant Lives, Border Patrol Helps Save Others: It wasn’t the usual heat, but the unusual cold that claimed the lives of several undocumented immigrants crossing through the treacherous South Texas brush late last week. Border Patrol agents from the Falfurrias station found the bodies of three immigrants on Brooks County ranchland. The same day, agents from the McAllen station found an immigrant near Hidalgo who was in distress from the cold and who died after being taken to the hospital. Elsewhere, Laredo sector Border Patrol officials say agents detained more than 20 immigrants in four different locations – some of who were suffering from hypothermia. Further west, agents came across another group of immigrants on a mountain near Marfa, where one person had died. 14 others were in varying stages of hypothermia. A Border Patrol Air Operations unit helped take the immigrants off the mountain and get them to treatment.
318	7	Students and faculty discuss President Trump’s immigration ban at roundtable: On Thursday, students and faculty gathered in Hollander Hall for an informal roundtable on the ramifications of President Donald Trump’s executive order banning travelers from seven majority-Muslim countries. Professor Jacqueline Hidalgo of Latino/a studies, Professor Magnus Bernhardsson of history and Professor Zaid Adhami of religion led the discussion, which focused on the legal and ethical implications of the ban and its place in the historical and geopolitical landscape of the United States. Trump issued the executive order on Jan. 27, suspending admission for refugees for 120 days and putting a 90-day hold on entry into the country for nationals of Iran, Iraq, Libya, Somalia, Sudan, Syria and Yemen so that federal agencies can review the vetting process. Trump stated that the order is intended “to keep radical Islamic terrorists out of the United States of America,” following his campaign rhetoric to block Muslim immigration to the U. S. Judge James L. Robart of the Federal District Court in Seattle temporarily blocked the order on Feb. 3, after Washington state challenged its legality. The San Francisco-based U. S. Court of Appeals for the 9th Circuit later upheld that decision. Hidalgo opened the roundtable with a contextualization of the order and Trump’s rhetoric within American history.
353	7	Repairing immigration system starts with open conversation, collaboration Cortez Masto says: U. S. Senator Catherine Cortez Masto, D-Nev. , discusses the current legislative status of immigration at an immigration forum hosted by the Nevadans for the Common Good on Monday, April 17, 2017, at the All Saints Episcopal Church in Las Vegas. Rachel Aston Las Vegas Review-Journal @rookie__rae A group discusses personal immigration or migration stories after an immigration forum hosted by the Nevadans for the Common Good on Monday, April 17, 2017, at the All Saints Episcopal Church in Las Vegas. Rachel Aston Las Vegas Review-Journal @rookie__rae A group led by Father Jamie Conrad, center, discusses personal immigration or migration stories after an immigration forum hosted by the Nevadans for the Common Good on Monday, April 17, 2017, at the All Saints Episcopal Church in Las Vegas. Rachel Aston Las Vegas Review-Journal @rookie__rae U. S. Senator Catherine Cortez Masto, D-Nev. , addresses reporters after an immigration forum hosted by the Nevadans for the Common Good on Monday, April 17, 2017, at the All Saints Episcopal Church in Las Vegas. Rachel Aston Las Vegas Review-Journal @rookie__rae U. S. Senator Catherine Cortez Masto, D-Nev. , addresses reporters after an immigration forum hosted by the Nevadans for the Common Good on Monday, April 17, 2017, at the All Saints Episcopal Church in Las Vegas.
471	3	Roy Moore vows to aid Trump’s immigration crackdown after NYC terror attack: Republican Alabama Senate candidate Roy Moore weighed in on the terror attack in Manhattan on Monday, vowing to back President Trump’s tough stance against Islamic terrorists if elected. “As we get news this morning of yet another radical Islamic terrorist attack, I am grateful that it appears no one was critically injured, and, as always, I am thankful for the quick action of law enforcement who have the suspect in custody,” Moore wrote on Twitter, hoping to generate some positive press for himself by seizing on the bombing. “This incident underscores the continued threats our nation faces from those who want nothing more than to destroy the freedoms we enjoy. I am committed to implementing the president’s travel ban, putting an end to sanctuary cities, building the wall and making America safer,” he continued. “In the United States Senate I will fight with President Trump for the increased safety of the American people and I will not mince words when it comes to calling out radical Islamic terrorism for the threat that it is.” Moore, who has denied charges of sexual misconduct and assault from at least eight women, is facing Democrat Doug Jones in a special election Tuesday to fill the Senate seat vacated by Attorney General Jeff Sessions.
322	8	"A New Ballot Initiative Would Require Oregon Voters to Prove Their Citizenship Before Voting: Ari Berman, author of ""Give Us The Ballot,"" a 2015 book chronicling the 1965 Voting Rights Act, says the Oregon initiative is part of nationwide effort that has the effect of discouraging Latinos, young voters and poor people from voting. ""There is a climate of hostility toward Latinos and others from people who seem to believe all these noncitizens are registered,"" Berman says. ""There's just no evidence of that. "" Oregon might seem removed from the risk of voter disenfranchisement. The state was the first to allow its citizens to vote by mail. And in recent years, Gov. Kate Brown, a Democrat, has led the charge to make registering to vote here easier than anywhere else in the nation. The ""motor voter"" law she sponsored and signed in 2015 added 283,000 registered voters to the rolls last year."
63	8	Turkey to ask EU for rest of €3bn refugee aid: Ankara will ask the European Union about the remainder of a €3 billion ($3. 69 billion) fund intended for Syrian refugees during talks in Bulgaria next week, Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan said on Monday. Turkey has accepted 3. 5 million refugees from Syria, and the EU is already spending €3 billion to help them as part of a 2016 deal to curb migration into Europe. However, the Turkish president says “the promises made to us have not been kept. ” The EU states said they would give €3 billion plus another €3 billion of support, “but so far €850 million have entered our safe,” Erdogan said. “If you’re going to give that money, then do it. This nation has pride and you can’t toy with our pride.
437	6	On patrol America's most dangerous border, the Rio Grande: The seven illegals had been abandoned in the 30 degree heat just 200 yards from the border. Their lips were blue and one, dressed only in a hoodie, was dangerously cold. The reason for their abandonment? The 'coyotes' who smuggled them across had in reality used them as a distraction for their more lucrative trade: Drugs. As the Border Patrol rushed to detain the four men, two women, and a boy who said he was 16, the 'coyotes' - a nickname for the ruthless people smugglers - were rushing to secure their cargo of bales of marijuana, hoping law enforcement would pay attention to saving lives and let them get on with their trade. The migrants' brush with death was ended by the Border Patrol agents of the Rio Grande division - a routine day on America's most dangerous border where just across the valley is Tamaulipas, a part of Mexico the State Department says is so unsafe that U. S. citizens should simply never go there, like Syria or Afghanistan. DailyMailTV has had unprecedented access to the Rio Grande Valley in South Texas, spending three days on the ground with agents who serve on foot, in pick-ups and on horseback - and in the air with some of the 3,000 agents who try to keep it safe.
284	4	"Andy Burnham under fire for saying buying coffee is 'posh' as he criticises 'barista visas': Many have mocked Andy Burnham for saying that buying coffee from a cafe is ""posh"" after he criticised the idea of barista visas, which would allow immigrants to come over for a fixed amount of time to work in our coffee shops. He wrote: ""Bit bizarre hearing these right-wing calls for a 'Barista Visa'. God forbid the idea of waiting longer in the morning for their posh coffee. "" People, including a barista who claims to have served him in Manchester, have rubbished the claims that buying a coffee from a chain is a posh or right-wing thing to do. It has also been pointed out that Mr Burnham is partial to a posh coffee, and has been pictured with one."
340	8	"Trump order would target high skilled worker visa program: WASHINGTON — President Donald Trump is planning to sign an executive order that seeks to make changes to a visa program that brings in high-skilled workers. Trump is heading Tuesday to Kenosha, Wisconsin, where he plans to sign an order dubbed ""Buy American, Hire American,"" said administration officials who spoke on the condition of anonymity despite the president's frequent criticism of the use of anonymous sources. The officials said the order, which Trump will sign at the headquarters of tool manufacturer Snap-on Inc. , would direct the departments of Homeland Security, Justice, Labor and State to propose new rules to prevent immigration fraud and abuse. Those departments would also be asked to offer changes so that H-1B visas are awarded to the ""most-skilled or highest-paid applicants. "" The White House said the program is currently undercutting American workers by bringing in cheaper labour and said some tech companies are using it to hire large numbers of workers and drive down wages. Administration officials said the order also seeks to strengthen requirements that American-made products be used in certain federal construction projects, as well as in various federal transportation grant-funded projects. The officials said the commerce secretary will review how to close loopholes in enforcing the existing rules and provide recommendations to the president."
19	3	Iraq Begins Constructing Border Fence to Keep Jihadis Out: Iraq has begun constructing a fence on its border with Syria to keep Islamic State jihadis from entering its territory, the country’s border guards spokesman revealed Sunday. “Ten days ago we started to set up a barbed wire security fence with surveillance towers along the border with Syria,” said border guard spokesman Anwar Hamid Nayef in Iraq’s Anbar province, adding that experts from Baghdad’s defense ministry and the U. S. would soon visit “to evaluate the effectiveness of the fence. ” The new 20-kilometer barrier will include a six-meter-wide trench, surveillance towers, and the use of thermal imaging technology to detect potential Islamists attempting to cross the border. It will run over the border town of Al-Qaim, where Iraqi forces defeated ISIS last November. “If they approve the installations, we will continue along the whole border with Syria,” he explained. “Neither infiltrators nor smugglers nor terrorists will penetrate our borders in the future. ” Iraq’s total border with Syria stretches for approximately 600 kilometers. At the height of its power in 2014, ISIS controlled around one-third of Iraq after crossing the border from Syria to attack the Iraqi army. One of the caliphate’s major strongholds was the city of Mosul, reclaimed by Iraqi forces at the end of last year.
164	9	Immigrants Hope New Legal Services Fund Provides ‘Better Opportunity’: By Shawn Chitnis DENVER (CBS4) – City leaders announced a new immigrant legal services fund Monday that will help people who may face deportation. The fund will be supported by taxpayer dollars along with grants and private donations. “My parents left everything they knew behind to give my brothers and I a better life,” said Juan Gallegos, a supporter of the new fund. “A better opportunity here in the U. S. ” Gallegos is the director of civic engagement and legal services for the Colorado Immigrant Rights Coalition. He shared his story at a news conference on the steps of the City and County Building. “My dad fell into deportation proceedings,” Gallegos said. “It was a really tough time for my family. ” He said his family could afford the fees and lawyers needed to keep his father in the country, a total of $15,000. But he knows many families do not have access to those resources. “Things are really rough in the place where I was born,” he told CBS4. “Having my dad have to go back to that would be really awful. ” Mayor Michael Hancock and other city leaders announced that $250,000 will come from the city including the general fun and Denver’s Support Fund.
408	3	Pedophile Illegal Immigrant's Corpse Dumped Outside British Parliament: The corpse found slumped against the entrance to the Houses of Parliament in London, UK, has been identified as belonging to a notorious pedophile who had been deported from the country but had re-entered illegally and was receiving government assistance to integrate into society. Marcos Amaral Gourgel, 35, a former male model with dual Portuguese and Angolan citizenship, was convicted of sexually abusing a child in 2014. After a police investigation in which Gourgel was found in possession of child pornography, he was arrested on two counts related to child pornography and one count of child molestation. He was jailed and then deported from the UK. After returning to Portugal, Gourgel was allowed to walk free under the European Union’s lax pedophilia laws after a judge declared the former model was “not a threat to the local community. ” Investigators believe the convicted pedophile then took advantage of Europe’s open borders by illegally re-entering the UK and resuming life as though nothing had happened. The ministry of Portuguese communities abroad confirmed: “In 2014 he was deported to Portugal by the British authorities and assisted on his return. In 2016 we were made aware he had been deported again .
369	7	Immigrant lockup to open on site of destroyed Texas prison: RAYMONDVILLE, Texas — Officials in a remote South Texas county have approved a contract to open a privately run, 1,000-bed immigration lockup on the site of a tent city prison that was destroyed during a 2015 riot. The Valley Morning Star of Harlingen reports that Willacy County commissioners on Monday agreed to the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement detention centre outside Raymondville, about 50 miles (80 kilometres) from the U.S.-Mexico border city of Brownsville. County Judge Aurelio Guerra says the new lockup will boost the local economy. The prison that housed 3,000 inmates in tent-like domes closed after the 2015 uprising. A county lawsuit blamed the riot on “abysmal mismanagement” by Utah-based Management & Training Corp. Management & Training, which bought the site last year, will operate the new immigrant facility.
1	4	Second refugee family leaves small Newfoundland town that sponsored them: LEWISPORTE, N. L. - Like so many other Canadians, Stephanie McClellan felt called to act when she saw the image of three-year-old Syrian refugee Alan Kurdi’s body wash ashore in Turkey in 2015. Through Facebook posts and word of mouth, McClellan connected with other like-minded people in the little town of Lewisporte, N. L. , to form the Lewisporte Refugee Outreach Committee. The town of 3,400 fundraised and got organized to sponsor one family from Iraq and one from Syria through the blended visa office-referred program. Last month, the committee officially disbanded as the town said goodbye to the second of the two families who had become part of the community over the last few years. Both families have moved to Windsor, Ont. , in search of better job security, proximity to family and friends, and a larger community of Arabic speakers. McClellan says she’s happy for her friends’ next chapter, but will miss having them downstairs in her home’s basement apartment. “It will be different,” said McClellan. “I’ll miss just being able to go have a coffee and visit, and have the kids come up and play games for an evening, or go out to the park, things like that.
61	4	6 Africans shot in Italy; anti-migrant ex-candidate arrested: MILAN — A lone Italian gunman shot and wounded six African immigrants Saturday in a two-hour drive-by shooting spree, authorities said, terrorizing a small city in central Italy where a Nigerian man was arrested days earlier in a teenager's gruesome killing. The shooting suspect with right-wing political ties had an Italian flag tied around his neck as he was arrested hours later in the city of Macerata. Authorities identified him as Luca Traini, a 28-year-old Italian with no previous record. Traini had run for town council on the anti-migrant Northern League's ticket in a local election last year in Corridonia, the party confirmed, but its mayoral candidate lost the race. The news agency ANSA quoted friends of his as saying that Traini had previously been affiliated with Italian extremist parties like the neo-fascist Forza Nuova and CasaPound. As the violent attack unfolded in Macerata in Italy's central Marche region, police told residents to stay inside and ordered a halt to public transport to limit the casualties. Such violent shootings are rare in Italy, and usually associated with the southern Italian mafia. A video posted by the il Resto di Carlino newspaper later showed the suspect with an Italian flag draped over his shoulders being arrested by armed Carabinieri officers in the city center, near where he apparently fled his car on foot.
109	2	"Merkel news: Chancellor's migrant deal DISMANTLED - It's a bit of a charade: Angela Merkel rushed to Brussels last week to enter emergency talks with other European Union members to change the bloc's migration policy and secure her position in Germany. The Chancellor managed to reach a new deal with EU members to shake off the pressure from the Christian Social Union (CSU) threatening to abandon her coalition Government unless she agreed to end her open door policy. But Steven Meissner dismissed the apparent deal, suggesting instead EU leaders would simply ignore the new terms that would see them volunteer to accept migrants to their countries. Speaking to RT UK, Mr Meissner said: ""It’s a bit of a show as we’ve now found out because Poland and Hungary and Italy and a number of other countries have said there is no such agreement. ""What is she talking about? I don’t think this policy was ever meant to seriously be implemented in the first place."
445	5	White House claims Trump’s immigration plans could have prevented NYC attack: President Donald Trump said Monday that an attempted terrorist attack in New York bolsters the need for his preferred immigration policies, which the White House says would have prevented the suspect from entering the country. The White House offered no evidence about where the suspect was radicalized or whether there were any red flags in his record. The nation’s immigration system “allows far too many dangerous, inadequately vetted people to access our country,” Trump said, adding that the family-based method that brought the suspect to the US “incompatible with national security. ” “Today’s terror suspect entered our country through extended-family chain migration, which is incompatible with national security,” the President said. “Congress must end chain migration. Congress must also act on my administration’s other proposals to enhance domestic security. ” Trump also touted his travel ban, which does not apply to the country from which the suspect immigrated. All visa applicants to the US are screened before receiving their visas. The suspect, Akayed Ullah, 27, came to the US from Bangladesh in 2011 on a visa for children of siblings of US citizens, the Department of Homeland Security confirmed Monday. Ullah is a lawful permanent resident, or green card holder, spokesman Tyler Houlton said.
139	7	German parties edge closer to coalition with migration deal: BERLIN (Reuters) - Chancellor Angela Merkel’s conservatives and their would-be partners, the Social Democrats (SPD), have made major progress in talks on forming a coalition government but remain at odds on issues like labor rules, a senior SPD member said on Friday. As he emerged from lengthy talks that Merkel hopes will ultimately secure her fourth term and end political impasse in Europe’s largest economy, SPD General Secretary Lars Klingbeil said the parties had taken a “leap forward. ” “But we also saw that we have differences on some topics,” he said. Senior conservative Peter Altmaier said Friday’s talks had been good and the parties were optimistic but a “very tough stretch of road” lay ahead. The parties became embroiled in another dispute over migration on Friday, with some SPD members saying they wanted to revisit January’s coalition blueprint that said the parties did not expect annual migration to exceed 220,000 per year because they were annoyed that Merkel’s CSU Bavarian allies seemed to be considering this as an upper limit. But SPD deputy Ralf Stegner later said the parties had reached a deal. In an apparent defeat for the SPD, the wording of that migration prediction remained the same - as pushed for by the CSU, which calls for a migrant cap.
200	10	Afghan refugees coming to California struggle with PTSD: SACRAMENTO – California’s capital has emerged as a leading destination for Afghan refugees who were awarded special visas because of their service to coalition forces in the war. But life in the United States for them has proven a constant struggle. These former translators, engineers and doctors awarded Special Immigrant Visas must start over in bug-infested, low-rent apartments with minimum-wage jobs while dealing with PTSD and other health problems, the Sacramento Bee reported. More than 2,000 such visa holders and their family members have settled in Sacramento since October 2010, and many of them say they are struggling with anxiety and depression that have developed or been greatly exacerbated by their struggles in the United States. They say they feel helpless and abandoned, lacking decent jobs, housing or an understanding of U.S. culture. One of them is Faisal Razmal, a former interpreter for U.S. soldiers battling the Taliban in Afghanistan who was shot in the face in front of his Sacramento apartment in August 2015 by an assailant wielding a flare gun. A neighborhood teenager and alleged member of a gang has been charged and is awaiting trial. Razmal, 28, who lost the sight in one eye after the attack, said he feels like he also lost a piece of his soul.
366	5	"Trump on if US-Canada border is secure: 'You can never be totally: WASHINGTON, DC - FEBRUARY 13: U. S. President Donald Trump speaks as he participates in a joint news conference with Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau in the East Room of the White House on February 13, 2017 in Washington, DC. The two leaders participated in a roundtable discussion on the advancement of women entrepreneurs and business leaders. (Photo by Alex Wong/Getty Images) By Cox Media Group President Donald Trump and Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau met about their countries shared goals on Monday, but their contrasting views were also on display during a news conference where they talked about immigration and refugees. >> Read more trending stories Trump said ""you can never be totally confident"" that the northern border is secure in response to a question from a reporter. Here was the exchange: Reporter: ""President Trump, you seem to suggest that Syrian refugees are a Trojan horse for potential terrorism, while the PM hugs refugees and welcomes them with open arms. Are you confident the northern border is secure? "" Trump: ""You can never be totally confident. But through the incredible efforts already, I see it happen … We're actually taking people that are criminals, that are very hardened criminals with a tremendous track record of abuse and problems, and we're getting them out."
196	10	Police: 17 immigrants locked inside rig at Texas truck stop: EDINBURG, Texas (AP) — Police in Texas acting on a tip found 17 immigrants locked inside a tractor-trailer parked at a gas station about 20 miles (30 kilometers) from the border with Mexico. Edinburg Assistant Police Chief Oscar Trevino tells KGBT-TV that the immigrants from Mexico, Honduras and other countries may have been locked inside the 18-wheeler for at least eight hours before being freed by officers in Edinburg late Sunday morning. None of the people inside the tractor-trailer required medical attention. A man and woman who Trevino said are Cuban nationals were in charge of the rig and have been detained. Edinburg police went to the gas station, a popular stopover for commercial truck drivers traveling through the region, after receiving an anonymous call from someone saying a relative was trapped inside the tractor-trailer with several others. Officers began knocking on the sides of trailers parked at the station and eventually received return knocks from the one holding the immigrants, police said. A spokeswoman for U. S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement says the agency is investigating the matter. The discovery comes more than three weeks after 10 people died and several others were rescued from a sweltering rig parked at a Walmart in San Antonio.
56	7	Democrats reject immigration deal as budget deadline nears: WASHINGTON — Capitol Hill Democrats have rejected a White House bid to extend protections for so-called Dreamer immigrants in exchange for $25 billion in funding for President Donald Trump’s long-sought border wall as Washington talks on a $1. 3 trillion catchall spending bill hit a critical stage on Monday. Disputes remain over immigration enforcement and a smaller infusion of wall funding, as well as a major rail project that pits Trump against his most powerful Democratic adversary, Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer, D-N. Y. Monday’s developments were described by congressional aides in both parties who spoke on condition of anonymity because the talks remain secretive. All sides pressed toward an agreement by Monday night, though aides said it appeared more likely that the measure would be unveiled Tuesday for a House vote Thursday. House and Senate action is needed by midnight Friday to avert another government shutdown. The bipartisan measure is loaded with political and policy victories for both parties. Republicans and Trump are winning a long-sought budget increase for the Pentagon, while Democrats obtain funding for infrastructure, the opioid crisis and a wide swath of domestic programs. The bill would implement last month’s budget agreement, providing 10 percent increases for the Pentagon and domestic agencies.
321	7	"England Might Issue 'Barista Visas' to Keep Cafes Open After Brexit: One of the economic wrinkles that Brexit is posing to the British economy is that, without the help of immigrants, the entire service industry would basically shut down. Restaurants, bars, and coffee shops need employees to work, and turns out that UK citizens aren't all that interested in taking jobs in them. As Grub Street pointed out, just one applicant in 50 applying for a gig at a UK Pret a Manger is British. Pret's director of human resources, Andrea Wareham, told a British parliamentary committee that if the chain were forced to employ a British-only workforce, it would be almost impossible to find enough staff to keep their locations running. Now multiply that problem by every other fast casual chain, McDonald's franchise, community coffee shop, or neighborhood pub in the entire country, and you can see what kind of labor catastrophe could be on the horizon when Brexit takes effect. So, according to The Sun, Home Secretary Amber Rudd has hit upon a plan of issuing strict two-year ""barista visas"" to the country for EU workers. The plan is based on one currently in effect for residents of Australia, New Zealand, and Canada, dubbed the ""Youth Mobility Scheme."
238	6	"Hungary's police say its ""border-hunters” squad is overrun with unsavory applicants: Hungary has fallen out of favor with human rights groups for responding to the refugee crisis with a razor-wire fence on its border with Serbia and later with Croatia to keep migrants out. But for all its efforts at enforcing draconian policies on asylum seekers, it’s struggling to find suitable candidates to patrol its border fence. The government announced plans to hire police units of “border hunters” (paywall) in August 2015, setting a target of 3,000 last year. These border guards would patrol the border alongside 10,000 police and soldiers. The new recruits will carry pistols, pepper spray, batons, and handcuffs. Despite a massive recruitment drive, Hungarian police told BBC News that “the name is part of the problem, as it attracts the wrong kind of applicant.” This isn’t due to a lack of interest, but because many of the applicants are unable to pass tests put in to weed out unsavory characters. In a country where xenophobia is running high under a conservative government, the police have, for instance, disabled comments on YouTube recruitment videos. Police officers told the BBC that only 1,000 of the 2,700 people who applied from August 2016 to January this year were accepted."
4	5	Why These Students Are Living With Immigrant Families For A Week: A program in Minnesota is offering American high school students the chance to live for a week with local immigrant families, to help counter misconceptions and create connections between U. S. -born and immigrant communities. The nonprofit City Stay connects students from three private high schools in the Twin Cities with local Latino, Somali and Hmong host families ― representing the three largest immigrant communities in the state. “We live in bubbles, largely interacting with people who look the way we do, dress the way we do, and that leads to mistrust and misconceptions,” founder Julie Knopp told The Huffington Post. “At the end of the day, it’s just about getting to know your neighbors. ” As part of the elective program, for which students pay a fee, the teens participate in the family lives of their hosts over the weekend and after school ― everything from cooking meals to running errands to playing sports. During the week, they join in school lessons and activities facilitated by City Stay, including learning about immigrant communities from members of those communities. They also share with each other what they’ve learned from their time staying with a host family.
491	8	Trump Has Promised to Build More Ships. He May Deport the Workers Who Help Make Them: Early last year, President-elect Donald Trump promised that when he got back into the Oval Office, he’d authorize the U.S. Navy to build more ships. “It’s very important,” he said, “because it’s jobs, great jobs.” However, the companies that build ships for the government are already having trouble finding enough workers to fill those jobs.
183	7	Congressional GOP Divided Over Immigration, Some Willing To Work With Democrats: Congressional GOP Divided Over Immigration, Some Willing To Work With Democrats Vulnerable House Republican are forcing their leaders to schedule votes on immigration to try to stave off a blue wave in November. But their support for a moderate approach that includes a path to citizenship puts them at odds with President Trump's midterm strategy.
431	9	New Brexit poll finds a plan for the Irish border both unionists and nationalists can agree on: The prevailing wisdom concerning Brexit and the Irish border is that it’s an impossible trilemma. A solution will either disappoint the Brexiteers (if the UK essentially remains in the customs union), the unionists in Northern Ireland (if a border is placed in the Irish Sea), or Irish nationalist opinion (if there is any semblance of a north-south border). The UK government meanwhile seems to be going through a form of collective grieving: first denial of the difficulty of resolving the border issue via technology solutions, then anger and accusations that the Irish government was taking a hard line on the border for political gain. Now Whitehall seems to accept that it needs to come up with some creative alternatives, and a possible new “improved” approach on the customs union looks likely to emerge at a crunch cabinet meeting at Chequers on July 6. Read more: Explainer: what's the difference between 'hard' and 'soft' Brexit? But beyond the apparent incompatibility of the current options there is evidence of more convergence than is popularly understood. Our new survey on citizen preferences in Northern Ireland over post-Brexit border arrangements adds an important dimension to this debate.
49	4	"US Supreme Court Ruling Against Asylum Seekers to Have 'Grave Consequences': WASHINGTON (Sputnik) — The US Supreme Court's rejection to hear a case of 28 asylum seekers detained in Berks County, Pennsylvania will negatively affect many refugee families and leave them at risk of deportation, Human Rights First said in a press release on Monday. “This ruling will have grave consequences not only for these families, but also for many other asylum seekers whose lives are at risk due to the lack of effective safeguards in expedited removal processing,"" the release stated. In 2016, the families, including 33 children from El Salvador, Honduras and Guatemala, had asked the Supreme Court to overturn a lower court ruling that refused them the ability to challenge their removal from the United States. Human Rights First called Monday's decision concerning because the highest federal court has not used an opportunity to correct the previous ruling. On January 25, US President Donald Trump ordered the resumption of the 2008 Secure Communities program that relied on information-sharing among local, state and federal law enforcement agencies to identify and deport immigrants with criminal records."
278	4	Immigration judge with 'little idea' of law still in job: By all accounts, the workings of the Taylor House Tribunal Hearing Centre in North London — and one judge in particular — leave rather a lot to be desired. This is the domain of Dr Amir Majid, 64, who has been an immigration judge for the past 20 years. It so happens that Judge Majid is blind — he lost his sight as a young man. There have been two other blind judges in modern Britain, both highly effective and hugely respected. A report condemned Dr Amir Majid as having made an error of law in every one of the 13 cases under appeal Unfortunately, Judge Majid appears to have little in common with either — or, indeed the remarkable Sir John Fielding, their 18th-century predecessor on the bench who was known as the Blind Beak of Bow Street and who, apparently, could ‘recognise more than 3,000 criminals by the sound of their voices’. Instead, Judge Majid’s arrival in court at Taylor House to hear asylum cases is often greeted with the rolling of eyes and an air of weary resignation. His ‘idiosyncrasies’, to put it politely, were known to few outside the building until this week, when it emerged he had been criticised in an unprecedented ruling for ‘wholly failing to meet the standards that are demanded by the office of a judge’.
43	8	Arizona Border Patrol agents find catapult attached to border fence: TUCSON, Ariz. (WDTN) – Station Border Patrol agents recently seized two bundles of marijuana catapulted across the border from Mexico. While patrolling an area east of the Douglas Port of Entry on February 10, agents noticed several people on the south side quickly retreating from the fence as they approached. When agents arrived at the fence they found a catapult system attached to the south side of the border fence. They searched the area and located two bundles of marijuana. Agents contacted law enforcement authorities in Mexico who responded to investigate. U. S. Border Patrol agents dismantled the catapult system which was seized by Mexican authorities. Border Patrol agents took possession of the marijuana that weighed more than 47 pounds.
116	4	The real immigration story that both sides ignore: As the immigration debate hit another low last week, I received the news that my favorite immigrant died: my father-in-law, Paul Gavora. I don’t want to politicize Paul’s story too much, or really at all. For me, the man wasn’t a talking point; he was a hero. Still, one of the things about today’s immigration debate that breaks my heart is how both sides have lost the plot. There are legitimate policy arguments on all sides, but the story of immigration is getting slaughtered in the crossfire. Consider my father-in-law. Born Vladimir Gavora in 1931, in the then-Czechoslovakian (today just Slovakian) village of Brezova pod Bradlom, Vlad grew up fast. When he was 7, the Germans invaded. When he was 13, his father died. The same year, the Red Army moved in. He saw things then he didn’t like to talk about. In 10th grade, he was expelled for questioning Communist doctrine in class. In his day, it was the teachers who were snowflakes. Expulsion slammed a door on any future he might have had at home. So in 1948, he swam the Danube by moonlight to escape the Communists. He made it to an Austrian refugee camp, where they sent him to Germany to finish high school.
27	6	"US lawmakers and IT industry against ending work permit to H-4 visa holders: Influential lawmakers and representatives of the American IT industry, including Facebook, have opposed the Trump administration's proposed plan to withdraw work permits to H-4 visa holders, who are spouses of H-1B visa holders. ""Rescinding this rule and removing tens of thousands of people from the American workforce would be devastating to their families, and would hurt our economy,"" Silicon Valley-based FWD. US, which was founded by top IT companies like Facebook, Google and Microsoft, said in a report released yesterday. It comes a day after the American media reported a letter from the US Citizenship and Immigration Services about its decision to terminate the Obama-era regulation that granted work permits to H-4 visa holders, a majority of whom are Indian professionals, and are mostly women. ""This policy is important because it allows certain individuals to secure gainful employment without having to wait for their spouses to receive permanent residency, many of whom are experiencing a processing backlog of more than a decade,"" FWD. US argued. Roughly 80 per cent of H-4 visa holders are women, and many had successful jobs and held advanced degrees in their native countries before coming to the US."
377	6	Supreme Court won’t hear case challenging government’s expedited removal of undocumented immigrants: × Supreme Court won’t hear case challenging government’s expedited removal of undocumented immigrants The Supreme Court on Monday left in place a lower court opinion rejecting claims by undocumented Central American women and children — who were apprehended immediately after arriving in the country without authorization — seeking asylum. Lawyers for the families sought to challenge their expedited removal proceedings in federal court arguing they face gender-based violence at home, but a Philadelphia-based federal appeals court held that they have no right to judicial review of such claims. The court’s action means the government can continue to deny asylum seekers placed in expedited removal a chance to have their cases heard by federal court. Justice Neil Gorsuch, who has his first full week on the court starting Monday, did not participate in the decision. The case, initially brought under the Obama administration, comes as the Trump administration has vowed to more strictly enforce immigration laws. Originally, 28 mothers and their children entered the US border in Texas in late 2015. They were immediately placed in expedited removal proceedings. Represented by the American Civil Liberties Union, they argue they suffered “gender-based violence, including sexual assault, by men from whom they could not escape” and that they were targeted by gangs because “they are single women residing without a male household member to protect them.
89	6	"Spain: Dozens of children among 329 migrants rescued at sea: MADRID (AP) — Spanish officials say more than 300 people including newborns have been rescued from a wooden fishing boat off Libya's coast and taken to an Italian port. The Defense Ministry said water was flooding the boat when rescuers reached it Saturday northeast of the Libyan town of Misrata. The ministry said a Spanish frigate working on a European border patrol mission and a vessel of the Spanish non-governmental organization Proactiva Open Arms transferred 329 people from the wooden boat. The migrants were from various Sub-Saharan African countries and included 95 women, three of them pregnant, and 37 children — including six newborns, according to Javier Yrayzoz, a Second Lieutenant with Spain's Santa Maria frigate. Yrayzoz said rescuers worked against the clock to securely transfer the migrants from the fishing boat as its stowage, where many of the passengers crammed, filled up with water. ""We saw moments of heightened tension because the water leak forced us to operate at high speed while safety measures dictate us to operate cautiously,"" the lieutenant told The Associated Press over the phone. A doctor with the frigate said those rescued showed symptoms related to hypothermia and tiredness, but overall they were healthy."
228	8	Girl, mom cut out of car during border smuggling attempt: SAN DIEGO (AP) Officials say a 10-year-old girl and her mother allegedly being smuggled across the border had to be cut out of a car after the compartment they were hiding in failed to open in San Diego. The Union-Tribune reports a police dog alerted authorities to the rear of the convertible Nissan at the Otay Mesa Port of Entry early Tuesday. After several unsuccessful attempts to open the compartment, firefighters were called to cut it open. The mother and daughter, both Mexican citizens, were not injured. Advertisement Customs and Border Protection says the driver, a 27-year-old U. S. citizen, was arrested on suspicion of human smuggling. The newspaper says the woman and the girl will remain in the U. S. as material witnesses against the driver before being returned to Mexico. ___ Information from: The San Diego Union-Tribune, http://www. utsandiego.
405	3	Trump: Illegal immigrant criminals are 'getting the hell out': President Trump told Fox News that criminal illegal immigrants are “getting the hell out” of the U.S. or being thrown behind bars, as he also took to Twitter to rail against gangs like MS-13 and the Obama administration policies he claims allowed them to flourish in American cities. In an interview that aired Tuesday morning on “Fox & Friends,” Trump spoke highly of Homeland Security Secretary John Kelly, who is responsible for enforcing Trump’s border policy. Reprising remarks he made at the very start of his presidential bid, he emphasized the importance of removing criminal aliens. “We’ve gotten tremendous criminals out of this country,” Trump said. “I’m talking about illegal immigrants that were here that caused tremendous crime. That have murdered people, raped people – horrible things have happened. They’re getting the hell out or they’re going to prison.” Trump echoed those comments on Twitter, pointing to Central American export MS-13, a gang thought to be behind a quadruple homicide on Long Island last week. Though the gang has been around for decades, it’s grown more dangerous. “The weak illegal immigration policies of the Obama Admin. allowed bad MS-13 gangs to form in cities across U.S.
457	7	Trump, Dems at odds over immigrants, border wall in budget battle: Trump, Dems at odds over immigrants, border wall in budget battle WASHINGTON (AP) – President Donald Trump and top congressional Democrats remain shy of an agreement to put language into a government spending bill to protect many young immigrants from deportation. A White House official and a Senate Democratic aide say the White House has offered a two-and-a-half-year extension of President Barack Obama’s Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, or DACA. In exchange, the White House wants $25 billion for Trump’s proposed border wall with Mexico and other security measures. Democrats say for that amount, DACA recipients and people who might qualify for the program must get more: a chance at citizenship. DACA lets immigrants brought to the U. S. illegally as children stay temporarily and get jobs. Trump halted the program last fall. The aides spoke on condition of anonymity to disclose private talks.
130	8	"EU: Migrant deaths in central Mediterranean rise despite aid: BRUSSELS (AP) — The chief of the European border and coast guard agency says migrant deaths in the Mediterranean on the Libya-to-Italy smuggling route have increased to a record level despite ever more rescue vessels trying to prevent mass drownings. Frontex Executive Director Fabrice Leggeri said Wednesday ""we face a kind of sad paradox"" that as the international community increases efforts to send more rescue ships close to Libya, smuggling rings pack ever more people onto unseaworthy boats and push them out toward the open sea. He said the recorded number of migrant drowning deaths in 2016 — 4,579 — might be much less than the true loss of life. He says this ""is tragic and the reasons are well known: the number of migrants now (arriving) on very small dinghies."""
13	7	17 migrants reach Montenegro over the Adriatic sea: PODGORICA, Montenegro (AP) — Police in Montenegro say they have picked up 17 migrants, including 11 Syrians, from an Italian fishing boat that sent a distress signal off the Montenegrin coast. The police ship's crew said Tuesday they picked up the migrants from a small inflatable boat floating in the Adriatic sea. Police say two Moroccans, two people from Yemen, one from Afghanistan and one from Pakistan were also on the boat. The group included four children. It was not immediately clear where the migrants started their journey. Montenegro has been largely spared from the migrant flow across the Balkans that peaked in 2016, with people fleeing wars and poverty in the Middle East, Africa and Asia trying to reach the Western Europe.
415	8	Arrests of illegal immigrants reportedly jumped 32 percent in Trump's first months: Arrests of illegal immigrants are reportedly up by one-third in the early weeks of the Trump administration, with U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) making more than 21,000 arrests. The Washington Post reported Sunday that the total, from January 20 through mid-March, jumped 32.6 percent from the same period one year ago, when there were more than 16,000 arrests. The report stated that most of the arrests were of convicted criminals, but noted that there were 5,441 arrests of non-criminal aliens, more than double the total from last year. Adam Housley reported this morning that ICE detainers – requests to local authorities to hold criminal aliens – are up 75 percent, to more than 22,000. In an interview on NBC’s “Meet the Press,” DHS Secretary John Kelly said the definition of “criminal” has not changed, “but where on the spectrum of criminality we operate has changed.” For example, he said ICE agents may move to deport an individual with multiple DUI offenses. He said in the past, those individuals would have been “unlikely” to be deported. “The law deports people. Secretary Kelly doesn’t. ICE doesn’t. It’s the United States criminal justice system that deports people,” he said.
153	7	Blow for Britons as Australia scraps 457 visa programme: Britons dreaming of a new life in Australia have been dealt a major blow after its Prime Minister scrapped the visa programme for skilled foreign workers. The 457 visa programme, which is currently used by around 18,000 British citizens, will end tomorrow and will be replaced by a new one. Australia's Department of Immigration published a list of jobs removed from the new visa regime, which includes pilots, butchers, flight attendants, futures traders, web developers, public relations managers and journalists. In a video statement posted today, Australia's Prime Minister Malcom Turnbull said: 'Australian workers must have priority for Australian jobs. ' Scroll down for video and a full list of the occupations removed in the new visa programme 'Australia First' plan: Malcolm Turnbull made the stunning 457 announcement on social media then at a Canberra press conference (pictured) on Tuesday The 457 programme, introduced by John Howard's government in 1996, allowed overseas workers to stay in Australia for up to four years. Businesses could sponsor 'skilled' foreign workers to come to Australia for work - as long as they couldn't find a citizen or permanent resident to do the job instead. But Mr Turnbull said the programme has 'lost its credibility'.
80	8	Ship carrying 60 migrants arrives in Spain after being refused entry by Italy, Malta: BARCELONA, SPAIN—A rescue ship carrying 60 migrants arrived Wednesday in a Spanish port after being refused entry by Italy and Malta, the second time in a month that a humanitarian group has been forced to travel for days to unload people rescued in the central Mediterranean. The Italian government is blocking private rescue boats that it blames for encouraging human traffickers to launch unseaworthy boats loaded with migrants toward Europe. A doctor takes the temperature of migrants aboard the Open Arms aid boat, of Proactiva Open Arms Spanish NGO, after arriving at the port of Barcelona, Spain on Wednesday. The aid boat sailed to Spain with 60 migrants rescued on Saturday in waters near Libya, after it was rejected by both Italy and Malta. ( Olmo Calvo / The Assoicated Press ) But the aid groups deny having any link to smugglers in Libya or elsewhere, and say they are being forced to leave unattended the busy migrant sea transit route where deaths are mounting. The Open Arms rescue ship completed a four-day journey to Barcelona, in northeastern Spain, after it saved 60 people Saturday from a rubber boat floating in waters north of Libya.
77	7	World Bank Says Climate Change Could Create 140 Million Migrants by 2050: A new report by the World Bank shows that the effects of climate change could force 140 million people to move within their countries by 2050. The report looked at three developing regions of the world — sub-Saharan Africa, South Asia and Latin America — and found that unless urgent action is taken, the regions will likely have to deal with tens of millions of so-called climate migrants. Climate migrants are people who are forced to move within their country because of water scarcity, crop failure, rising sea levels and storm surges due to climate change. The report shows that with strong global efforts to cut greenhouse gas emissions and good development planning in each country, the number of climate migrants could be reduced dramatically — from a projected 140 million people to 40 million people by 2050. “We have a small window now, before the effects of climate change deepen, to prepare the ground for this new reality,” World Bank chief executive officer Kristalina Georgieva said about the new research. She said it is “important to help people make good decisions about whether to stay where they are or move to new locations where they are less vulnerable.
343	7	Independence Day 2017: PM Modi reaches out to Kashmir from Red Fort, envisages vision for ‘New India’: Prime Minister Narendra Modi addressing the nation from the ramparts of Red Fort, New Delhi. Express Photo by Tashi Tobgyal Prime Minister Narendra Modi addressing the nation from the ramparts of Red Fort, New Delhi. Express Photo by Tashi Tobgyal In his fourth Independence Day address from the ramparts of Red Fort, Prime Minister Narendra Modi shared his vision of a ‘New India’ which will be free from the ‘poison of communalism, casteism, corruption and terrorism’. In this ‘New India’, Modi said, the people will be the new rulers. “We have to leave this ‘chalta hai‘ attitude. We have to think of ‘badal sakta hai‘ — this attitude will help us as a nation,” PM Modi said. In his 56-minute speech, the shortest Independence Day speech so far in his tenure, the prime minister also touched on sensitive issues such as Kashmir and triple talaq. He said the problems ailing Kashmir can only be resolved by embracing them, not through abuses or bullets. “Na goli se, na gaali se, Kashmir ki samasya suljhegi gale lagaane se,” PM Modi said. On triple talaq, PM Modi said that he admires the courage of women who have been suffering due to triple talaq.
90	5	"AP FACT CHECK: No Trump order to deport welfare immigrants: WASHINGTON (AP) — A widely circulated report that President Donald Trump has signed an executive order calling for the deportation of immigrants who accept government welfare is false. Trump has signed executive orders focusing on immigration, including a travel-and-immigration ban that has been put on hold by a federal court in Washington state, but none focused on deporting immigrants who receive welfare. In recent weeks, drafts of possible executive orders have been leaked and one such draft did address immigrants who become a so-called ""public charge"" by accepting certain government benefits. The draft order was obtained by The Associated Press. The draft order did call for such immigrants to face deportation, but it hasn't been signed by the president. And even if it were to be signed, it wouldn't change much. There's already a law that says immigrants who become dependent on certain government benefits can be kicked out of the country, though it's rarely, if ever, enforced. Immigrants in the United States illegally are also barred from receiving welfare and other public benefits."
289	2	Trump Immigration Policy Veers From Abhorrent to Evil: Yet Mirian, a Honduran woman who arrived in the U.S., broke no law. She simply followed the established procedure by presenting herself at an official border crossing point and requesting asylum because her life was in danger in Honduras — nevertheless, her 18-month-old was taken from her. “The immigration officers made me walk out with my son to a government vehicle and place my son in a car seat in the vehicle,” Mirian said in a declaration accompanying the A.C.L.U. suit. “My son was crying as I put him in the seat. I did not even have a chance to comfort my son, because the officers slammed the door shut as soon as he was in his seat.” Likewise, Ms. G, a Mexican in the A.C.L.U. suit, went to an official border crossing point and requested asylum with her 4-year-old son and blind 6-year-old daughter. None of them had broken American law, yet the children were taken from their mother. “I have not seen my children for one and a half months,” Ms. G wrote in her declaration. “I worry about them constantly and don’t know when I will see them.” Granted, this does not happen to all who present themselves at the border and do not cross illegally; it seems arbitrary.
424	5	"Indian professionals are happy with the contours of Donald Trump's latest immigration policy: The land of the brave and home of the free is the most prized destination for Indian immigrants. After the recent fracas over immigration, US President Donald Trump 's first State of the Union address earlier this week focussed on a plan to push for meritbased immigration system, ending the visa lottery programme and limiting family-based migration. All this comes as music to the ears of thousands of skilled Indians, waiting on what seem endless queues for green cards. ""It is time to begin moving towards a merit-based immigration system — one that admits people who are skilled, who want to work, who will contribute to our society, and who will love and respect our country,"" Trump said. Later, on Thursday, an official communication from the White House further insisted that the time had come to enact common-sense reforms to base immigration on individual merit and skill. ""The flood of low-skilled immigrants into the US has suppressed wages, harmed American workers and strained federal resources,"" the White House said as it defended Trump's proposal for a meritbased immigration system. According to the White House, countries like Canada and Australia use a merit-based immigration system that benefits both the immigrants and those nations."
464	7	Feeling what it's like to cross the US border: Video The US southern border and the people crossing it have become the subject of global headlines. A new art installation by Oscar-winning Mexican director Alejandro González Iñárritu gives people the opportunity to see and feel what it's like to cross the desert at night. Filmed and produced by Bill McKenna and Felicia Barr. Music by Gene D'Andrea. Footage provided by Legendary Films. Photos by Emmanuel Lubezki, Chachi Ramirez, Agatha Bacelar/Emerson Collective, with special thanks to The Emerson Collective, The Phillips Collection and Atlas Performing Arts Center.
25	5	Some young immigrants are considering seeking their American dreams elsewhere: The United States was an inspirational place for Karla Estrada Sanchez’s parents, but she is starting to wonder whether the American dream could be turning into a nightmare for herself and other young immigrants. “My parents have always told (us) opportunities are anywhere. They brought us to this country because it was supposedly the land of opportunity,” said Estrada, 26, of Los Angeles. “But if we find opportunity in another place, our country is wherever our feet take us,” she said. Estrada, a participant in President Barack Obama’s Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, which provides deportation relief and work permits to immigrants who were brought here as children, is one of many young immigrants who are contemplating leaving the country. They are worried about their future here as President Donald Trump’s administration ramps up deportation efforts and has recently proposed limiting legal immigration. Immigration arrests increased by nearly 40 percent in early 2017 as agents — emboldened by Trump’s pledge to build a border wall and deport criminals — detained more than 40,000 people suspected of being in the country illegally. Under current White House policy, any immigrant living illegally in the U.
162	6	H-1B visas: How the Trump administration is ‘freaking people out’: By Queenie Wong, Bay Area News Group The Trump administration is bringing a new level of scrutiny to a temporary work visa popular among technology firms, costing employers more time and money as they seek to bring foreign workers to the United States. From January to August 2017, the U. S. Citizenship and Immigration Services sent 85,265 requests for evidence in response to H-1B visa applications, a 45 percent increase compared to the same period a year earlier, agency data show. Immigration lawyers say these requests — made when an application is missing required documents or the agency determines it needs more proof to decide if a worker is eligible for the visa — could even discourage companies and individuals from seeking an H-1B visa in the first place. “It’s the most nonvisible and yet hugely impactful way to reach people, and it’s freaking people out,” said Cynthia Lange, managing partner for the Northern California practice of Fragomen, an international immigration law firm that works with some of the world’s largest tech firms. But administration officials say the scrutiny is needed to ensure the integrity of the controversial visa program, which critics say has cost American jobs.
323	8	"Plan to triage asylum seekers stalled by Ontario provincial election: Teresa Wright, The Canadian Press OTTAWA -- A plan to ""triage"" asylum seekers crossing the Canada-U. S. border illegally, in an effort to move some migrants out of Quebec and into Ontario, has stalled because Ontario is in the midst of a provincial election. Federal Transport Minister Marc Garneau says Ontario civil servants have been working on details of the plan with the federal government and Quebec, but nothing can be finalized until a new provincial government is in place. ""There's a lot of very hard work being done by civil servants who work for Immigration Ontario to look at the whole issue of the triage, which is more than just a reception centre. It's the whole process of absorbing people who want to go to Ontario. And that entails resources -- financial resources, and other kinds of resources, manpower resources,"" Garneau told reporters Wednesday. ""There is an election going on and, when it's all in place, there will be a requirement to get the new government of Ontario, whatever that government is, to sign onto that. "" The ad hoc intergovernmental task force on irregular migration met Wednesday evening to discuss the ongoing issue of illegal border crossers and how to address pressures facing Quebec, where the vast majority of irregular migrants are arriving."
310	6	H-1B visa applications drop as US employers anticipate reforms: NEW YORK (BLOOMBERG) - Employers applied for about 16 per cent fewer H-1B visas for highly skilled workers this year than in 2016, possibly reflecting concern that the Trump administration is taking a more restrictive approach to the programme. Employers seeking visas for 2018 submitted 199,000 applications this year, compared with 236,000 last year, US Citizenship and Immigration Services said on Monday (April 17). The visa programme, which is designed to let companies hire highly skilled workers for technical jobs based in the US that they're having trouble filling, is a central policy focus of the technology industry. As in past years, the number of applications far exceeded the 85,000 visas available. But this was the first time in the past five years that the total number of requests decreased. While the federal government made some incremental changes this year, it didn't make any fundamental shifts - much to the frustration of some officials who have been pushing for sweeping reforms. There are several bills in Congress that would implement bigger adjustments, but they wouldn't impact the programme until next year at the earliest. The changes the new administration did make were intended to cut back on aggressive use of the visas by outsourcing companies.
120	1	The Border Fetish: An Unsustainable World Managed With an Iron Fist: At first, I thought I had inadvertently entered an active war zone. I was on a lonely two-lane road in southern New Mexico heading for El Paso, Texas. Off to the side of the road, hardly concealed behind some desert shrubs, I suddenly noticed what seemed to be a tank. For a second, I thought I might be seeing an apparition. When I stopped to take a picture, a soldier wearing a camouflage helmet emerged from the top of the Stryker, a 19-ton, eight-wheeled combat vehicle that was regularly used in military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan. He looked my way and I offered a pathetic wave. To my relief, he waved back, then settled behind what seemed to be a large surveillance display mounted atop the vehicle. With high-tech binoculars, he began to monitor the mountainous desert that stretched toward Mexico, 20 miles away, as if the enemy might appear at any moment. That was in 2012 and, though I had already been reporting on the militarization of the U. S. -Mexican border for years, I had never seen anything like it. Barack Obama was still president and it would be another six years before Donald Trump announced with much fanfare that he was essentially going to declare war at the border and send in the National Guard.
430	3	As Gazans attack border crossing, it's Israel coming to their aid: Despite Hamas 's repeated assault on the Kerem Shalom border crossing — the only lifeline that supplies basic goods to civilians in Gaza — Israel has been battling intensively to keep the crossing active. The episode underlines a much wider phenomenon in which Hamas seeks to create a crisis to find outside funding for Gazans' needs, so that it can ensure the stability of its regime and keep supporting its military wing. Meanwhile, the Palestinian Authority seeks to choke off Gaza's economy as a form of punishment for Hamas refusing to disarm its military wing and to force Hamas to pay a price for splitting off from the P. A. However, those paying the price for these events are the residents of the Gaza Strip. Three times in May, Kerem Shalom was attacked by mobs acting under instructions by the Hamas terror organization. Rioters burned down fuel pipes that supply Gazans with critical energy needs and looted the Palestinian side of the crossing terminal. According to Israeli intelligence assessments, these actions are part of a wider effort by Hamas to ramp up the pressure on Israel and the international community to get them fresh funds for the collapsing Palestinian economy.
7	3	"PETA to post billboard near border comparing cow families to migrants: People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals announced plans Monday to run a billboard near the U. S. -Mexico border that parallels the separation of migrant families with the separation of cows at dairy farms. PETA said it would support the billboard in San Ysidro, California showing a mother cow and calf next to the words, “Loving Mothers and Their Children Should Never Be Separated. Go Vegan. ” San Diego County is home to three shelters for unaccompanied migrant children in El Cajon, Lemon Grove, and San Diego. ""It's cruel to separate any parent from her beloved child,"" said PETA President Ingrid Newkirk. ""We are heartsick over the trauma that families are experiencing at the border and hope people will extend their compassion to mother cows whose calves are stolen from them on dairy farms by switching to soy and other plant-derived milks. "" PETA also planned to run the billboard in Tucson, Arizona. The organization announced it had donated a shipment of soy milk to the Humanitarian Respite Center in McAllen, Texas. There was no word on when the billboard would be erected."
11	6	"Libya asks EU for ships and radars to stop migrants - sources: BRUSSELS (Reuters) - Libya has asked the European Union to provide it with ships and radars to help its forces stop the smuggling of migrants across the Mediterranean, sources in Brussels said. They said EU foreign ministers would review the ""shopping list"" at a meeting of foreign ministers in Luxembourg on Monday, but would not be able to meet all the requests. The bloc is supporting the government of Prime Minister Fayez Seraj in the hope it can gain control over the whole country after years of chaos and fighting. In exchange, it wants his help on preventing African refugees and migrants from embarking from the coast of Libya for Europe. ""We have received a formal request and it's under consideration,"" a senior EU diplomat said. ""We need it to be linked to the work we are doing on borders to ensure it is going to be used effectively. "" The EU is already training the Libyan coastguard to intercept smuggler boats and return them to the north African country. Last year, Libya was the main embarkation point for people seeking to reach Europe via Italy, a dangerous route that the EU fears will grow busier as spring brings calmer seas."
367	7	Trump to meet with retail CEOs who oppose border tax: U. S. President Donald Trump will welcome the chief executive officers of Target Corp, Best Buy Co Inc and six other major retailers to the White House on Wednesday morning to discuss tax reform and infrastructure. Best Buy and Target have been fighting a proposal to impose a border tax on imported goods, among sweeping changes presented by the Republican-controlled House of Representatives. Convincing Trump to oppose the measure would probably bring an end to it. Trump plans to announce his own tax plan in the coming weeks. The meeting will include Target’s Brian Cornell, Best Buy’s Hubert Joly, Gap Inc’s Art Peck, Autozone Inc’s William Rhodes, Walgreens Boots Alliance Inc’s Stefano Pessina, J. C. Penney Co Inc’s Marvin Ellison, Jo-Ann Stores’ Jill Soltau and Tractor Supply Co’s Gregory Sandfort. The group will also meet on Wednesday with the heads of the two tax-writing congressional committees, Kevin Brady, chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, and Senator Orrin Hatch, chairman of the Senate Finance Committee. Brady and House Speaker Paul Ryan are leading the push to overhaul the tax code by cutting the corporate income tax to 20 percent from 35 percent, imposing a 20 percent tax on imports and excluding export revenue from taxable income.
305	3	[Herald Interview] Korea should open door to immigrants, but with well-advised policy: NATIONAL IOM Migration Research and Training Center Director Chung Ki-seon (Park Hyun-koo/The Korea Herald) Not accepting immigrants is no longer a choice for South Korea, as it faces a shrinking working population. But the country, a homogeneous society ethnically, linguistically and culturally for so long, must devise a well-advised policy in order not to follow the same path as Europe, which is struggling with social problems related to immigrants. “Accepting immigrants should no longer be confined to filling jobs in sectors facing labor shortages, nor to finding spouses for unmarried Koreans,” said Chung Ki-seon, director of the IOM Migration Research and Training Center, during an interview with The Korea Herald. “It should serve as a growth engine for South Korea. ”The economic benefits of an open-door immigration policy look clear. The country is going through a population crisis, with its birth rate remaining one of the world’s lowest and the economically active population -- made up of those aged between 15 and 64 -- starting to shrink for the first time this year. It is set to become an aged society in 2018, with people aged 65 and older making up 14 percent of its population.
169	5	"100 more police patrol Calais after migrant brawl: Calais, France (CNN) A fragile calm has been restored and 100 more officers deployed in the French port city of Calais following a brawl Thursday in which four migrants were shot and 18 injured, police told CNN. The beefed-up security adds to what was already a heavy law enforcement presence, with extra patrols in parts of the city that some 800 migrants still call home nearly 18 months after authorities dismantled the infamous ""Jungle"" migrant camp Thursday's violence highlighted the growing tension in Calais, where migrants arriving in the wake of a deal struck last month between Britain and France to speed up asylum processes have upset the delicate balance between migrant ethnic communities. The result, according to aid groups, has been more intense competition for smugglers who charge as much as $3,700 (3,000 euros) per person to get migrants across the English Channel. ""I don't think that the refugees really understand the politics, but they heard a rumor that some might get to the UK, and with desperate people, any hope at all is something that they jump at,"" Clare Moseley of the charity aid group Care4Calais said. Migrants living in tents in February 2018 in Calais, France, rely on aid groups to survive."
82	6	Anti-Immigrant Ship Trying to Block Refugees From Crossing Mediterranean Has Funding Cancelled: A right-wing group that set sail on the Mediterranean to stop refugees reaching Europe is facing a cash crisis after a crowd-funding company cancelled their account, the Independent reported. Defend Europe had raised more than a 0,000 on payment website Patreon to fund their mission to obstruct NGO vessels from rescuing migrants who had set sail from North Africa. But owners of the tech firm shut down the profile page for the right-wing activists after a lobbying campaign, saying their venture was “likely to cause loss of life”. Figures show more than 2,300 refugees drowned in the Mediterranean last year, often setting out in makeshift or crowded vessels, in their bid to reach the shores of EU countries including Italy. The financial blow to Defend Europe’s campaign comes just days after their C-Star ship went adrift in the Mediterranean when its engine shut down, forcing nearby vessels to answer a distress call. The group had been raising money on the Patreon online payment website through an account named “European Identity”. Canadian right-wing commentator Lauren Southern set up the profile page which raised the funds for Defend Europe to set sail last month in their mission to stop refugee boats from leaving the coast of Libya.
483	7	An ICE Contractor Is Worth Billions. It’s Still Fighting to Pay Detainees as Little as $1 a Day to Work: The for-profit prison company GEO Group has surged in value under President Donald Trump. Investors are betting big on immigration detention. Its stock price doubled after Election Day.
396	7	Study: Christians in west Europe less tolerant of immigrants: Study: Christians in west Europe less tolerant of immigrants Photo: Murad Sezer, AP Image 1 of / 1 Caption Close Image 1 of 1 FILE - In this Thursday, June 5, 2008 file photo, books from the three monotheistic religions, clockwise from bottom left, the Bible, a Jewish Siddour, several copies of the New Testament and the Quran are seen on a table at a prison built for potential inmates at the Palexpo in Geneva, Switzerland. A new study suggests Christians in western Europe are less accepting of immigrants and non-Christians than people without religious affiliations. less FILE - In this Thursday, June 5, 2008 file photo, books from the three monotheistic religions, clockwise from bottom left, the Bible, a Jewish Siddour, several copies of the New Testament and the Quran are . more Photo: Murad Sezer, AP Study: Christians in west Europe less tolerant of immigrants 1 / 1 Back to Gallery BERLIN (AP) — Christians in western Europe are less accepting of immigrants and non-Christians than people without religious affiliations, a study published Tuesday that was based on a 15-country survey found. The Pew Research Center report revealed that Christians — whether or not they are churchgoers — are more likely than western Europeans who don't identify with a religion to express negative views of Muslims, Jews and migrants.
274	10	LHC extends stay on deportation of Turk teachers: LAHORE: The Lahore High Court (LHC) on Friday extended stay on deportation of Turk teachers, Murat Ervan and Mesut, and three family members of the latter. Justice Shams Mehmood Mirza passed the orders on petitions, filed against possible deportation of Murat Ervan and Mesut and his family members. During the hearing, a law officer on behalf of the Interior Ministry, submitted that a letter had been written to the intelligence agencies to know whether Mesut, his wife Meral, and daughters—Huda Nur and Fatima Huma Kacmaz—were in their custody. He requested the court to grant more time for filing a detailed report. At this, the court extended the stay and adjourned hearing for two weeks. These teachers were working for Pak-Turk schools. It is alleged that Mesut and his three members were picked up by law-enforcing agencies from their residence in Wapda Town on Sept 27 and they might be deported. Murat Ervan has also expressed apprehensions that he might be deported despite having permission for stay in Pakistan.
467	6	Alfie Evans latest update: Was baby Alfie given Italian citizenship? Alder Hey statement: Was Alfie Evans granted Italian citizenship? In an unexpected turn of events, the 23-month-old boy who has been confined to his Alder Hey hospital bed since December 2016, was granted Italian citizenship. The lifeline came after the UK High Court ruled Alder Hey Children’s Hospital could stop providing Alfie’s crucial life support against his parents wishes. Tom Evans and Kate James have been embroiled in a series of bitter legal disputes over their son’s wellbeing since the ruling. The Italian Foreign Ministry has now come through with a glimmer of hope for the desperate parents, and the couple are waiting for both the EU and Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson to approve Alfie’s medical trip. In a statement, the Italian Ministry said: “Foreign Minister Angeli Angelino Alfano and interior minister Marco Minniti have granted little Alfie citizenship. “The Italian Government hopes that being an Italian citizen will allow the child immediate transfer to Italy. ” Earlier last week Mr Evans rushed to Rome where he met the Pope at the Vatican in a bid to grant his poor son asylum. Late on Monday, the Pope said: “Moved by the prayers and immense solidarity shown little Alfie Evans, I renew my appeal that the suffering of his parents may be heard and that their desire to seek new forms of treatment may be granted.
302	6	"Lebanese cleric: Revoke Hezbollah leader's citizenship over Iran ties: Muhammad Ali Al-Husseini, a Shi'ite cleric, called last week for Lebanon to revoke Hezbollah leader Hassan Nasrallah's citizenship over his ties to Iran. Shiite Lebanese Scholar Muhammad Ali Al-Husseini Calls to Revoke Nasrallah's Citizenship pic. twitter. com/TMmJ0u938a — MEMRI (@MEMRIReports) March 18, 2018 ""Just like the proper action taken by Bahrain, when it revoked the citizenship of Iran's collaborators who were involved in tarnishing the image of Bahrain, I call upon the State of Lebanon to revoke the citizenship of Hassan Nasrallah,"" he said in an interview with Saudi-owned TV channel Al Arabiya, translated by MEMRI. ""[Nasrallah's] declarations have harmed the Lebanese state, constitution, and law. This is clear collaboration of a Lebanese citizen with a foreign country,"" he emphasized. Al-Husseini's remarks came in response to a report by the Iranian Farda News website in which Nasrallah allegedly said Iran's Rule of Jurisprudent - giving Iranian Ayatollah Ali Khamenei supreme political power - was above the Lebanese constitution. The report was later denied by Hezbollah's media office, according to MEMRI. Head of the Arab Islamic Council in Lebanon and a regular critic of Iran's regime, Al-Husseini, warned that ""what is happening today in our nation is that Persian Iran is genuinely endeavoring to shatter our Arab nation to smithereens."
227	3	"European Union: Italy says its abandoned by Europe over migrant crisis: GETTY The Italian Foreign Minister has accused the EU of abandoning Italy The nation is crumbling under the strain of the migrant crisis, and was having to handle it alone as EU member states were too busy bickering to come up with a ‘burden sharing’ programme, proposed by the European Commission last year. He told German newspaper Bild: “Italy is contributing, but we cannot cope with this burden alone”. Asked if Italy had been abandoned by other European nations, Mr Alfano said: “A very clear yes. ” The European Commission’s proposal would see member states contributing to a refugee resettlement plan and asylum fund. But governments should be looking to Libya as “the only solution” to decrease the number of migrants reaching Italy, he said. The Italian MP did not slam Angela Merkel’s open door refugee policy, even though it lead to a sharp increase in asylum seekers heading to Europe, saying she ""was on the right side of the story in 2015"". GETTY Angelino Alfano dismissed Austria’s threats of sending troops to the border Italy is contributing, but we cannot cope with this burden alone Angelino Alfano He said the German Chancellor showed “leadership, with strength and courage”, and noted now most migrants are coming from African countries rather than the Middle East."
344	7	30-Day Free Visa For Indonesian Citizens: PM Modi: Prime Minister Narendra Modi today announced a 30-day free visa for Indonesian citizens and invited the Indian community to travel to their country of origin to experience the ‘New India’. Addressing a gathering of the Indian diaspora at the Jakarta Convention Centre in the Indonesian capital, PM Modi said, “not only do the names of our nations rhyme but also there is a distinct rhythm in the India-Indonesia friendship. ” “We will grant free of cost visa for Indonesian citizens for travel of up to 30 days,” PM Modi said, amid applause. “Many of you may never have been to India. I invite you all to come to India for the Kumbh in Prayag (Allahabad) next year,” PM Modi told the gathering. He said this mega event would be a new experience for the visitors who will not only realise India’s ancient culture but also get a glimpse of ‘New India’. Kumbh Mela is one of the largest human congregations on the Earth. PM Modi requested the Indian community in Indonesia to make a habit of visiting their country of origin with friends and experience how India has been changing. Taking a dig at the previous governments, PM Modi said his government’s first priority was to make India corruption free, citizen-centric and development friendly.
376	9	"Hamas agrees with Egypt on tighter border security: Security and humanitarian issues were discussed by the two sides, marking a thaw in the Egypt-Hamas relationship. Egypt has reportedly offered to provide electricity to Gaza to relieve part of its humanitarian crisis in return for Hamas agreeing to several security measures. The Hamas delegation, headed by the movement’s new Prime Minister Yahya Sinwar, returned to the Gaza Strip on Monday after nine days of what they said was constructive meetings with Cairo officials. Egypt agreed to fund Gaza’s sole power plant, after it was shut down in April as a result of heavy taxes levied by the Palestinian Authority on diesel fuel. In return, Hamas would tighten its security on the Rafah border. According to Hamas leader Mahmoud Zahhar, the movement had asked to meet with their Egyptian counterparts before the GCC crisis began. “We agreed, and this is as much to our benefit as it is to theirs, to separate our borders to prevent the smuggling of drugs and weapons,” Zahhar said. READ MORE- Hamas' political document: What to expect “The delegation also discussed humanitarian issues such as freedom to travel through the Rafah border,” Zahhar told Al Jazeera. Hamas official Musheer al-Masri told Al Jazeera that Egyptian officials had promised ""practical steps to ease the siege on the Palestinian people""."
237	7	How an eleventh-hour border shift kept the suburbs in Illinois: How an eleventh-hour border shift kept the suburbs in Illinois hello Editor's note: Most people know about the Great Chicago Fire and the apocryphal cow blamed for starting it by kicking over a lamp in Mrs. O’Leary’s barn in 1871, but there’s a lot more to Illinois history than that. Native American settlements thousands of years old, the battle over slavery, the transfer of influence from southern to northern Illinois, wars and riots, the leaders and gangsters and politicians and artists and athletes that shaped our state all will be part of a yearlong series of articles to mark Illinois’ bicentennial. The Daily Herald and dozens of publications across the state are joining forces on the series, which will continue until Illinois’ 200th birthday on Dec. 3, 2018. Were it not for the action of an enterprising lawyer 200 years ago, the northern portion of Illinois would have the badger as the state animal and the Green Bay Packers as the home football team. Indeed, the shrewd move in 1818 by Nathaniel Pope, the Illinois Territory's delegate in Congress, to relocate the original proposed boundary from the southern tip of Lake Michigan is regarded as a decisive event in Illinois history.
421	7	Libya: Repatriation of Migrants in Libyan Detention Centers Begins: The International Organization for Migration has begun the voluntary repatriation of thousands of West African migrants being held in detention centers in Libya under abusive conditions. IOM plans to repatriate a total of 15,000 African migrants by the end of the year. Most come from Nigeria, Guinea, Mali and Senegal. The government of Niger has agreed to act as a country of transit for the migrants. Those who arrive at the airport in Niamey are registered by the International Organization for Migration and transported to their homes of origin. An IOM charter flight carrying 504 Nigerians, including women and young children, arrived in Niamey on Thursday. IOM plans seven additional daily charter flights from Tripoli, each carrying about 500 Nigerian migrants. The organization says another chartered flight arrived in Guinea's capital on Thursday, carrying 167 of the country's nationals. Returning in great distress Agency spokesman Leonard Doyle says people are returning home in great distress after having endured months of torture, overcrowding and other forms of ill-treatment in the Libyan detention centers. Doyle tells VOA it is very difficult to stop African migrants from trying to reach Europe. He criticizes Facebook and other social media for allowing criminals to spread lies and entice young people to make this sometimes-fatal journey.
276	8	"UPDATE 3-Trump pressures Democrats on Obamacare to get border wall deal: (Adds Schumer hopeful a deal could be reached) By David Morgan and Doina Chiacu WASHINGTON, April 23 President Donald Trump put pressure on Democrats on Sunday as U. S. lawmakers worked to avoid a government shutdown, saying Obamacare would die without a cash infusion the White House has offered in exchange for their agreement to fund his border wall. The escalated push to get Trump's priorities, which Democrats reject, into spending legislation could jeopardize prospects for an agreement to keep the government open. If talks fail, the government would shut down on Saturday, Trump's 100th day in office. ""Obamacare is in serious trouble. The Dems need big money to keep it going - otherwise it dies far sooner than anyone would have thought,"" the Republican president said in a Twitter post. In a second tweet, he added: ""The Democrats don't want money from budget going to border wall despite the fact that it will stop drugs and very bad MS 13 gang members. "" MS-13 is a criminal gang with members of Central American origin. The president's tweets appeared after White House budget director Mick Mulvaney accused Democrats of ""holding hostage national security"" by opposing $1."
450	5	Chain migration allowed Port Authority terror suspect to enter US, authorities say: The Bangladeshi man who allegedly detonated a pipe bomb near New York City’s Port Authority Bus Terminal on Monday came to the U. S. through chain migration, Department of Homeland Security Press Secretary Tyler Houlton confirmed to Fox News. Akayed Ullah, the 27-year-old attempted suicide bomber, lived in Brooklyn, New York, but emigrated from the Asian country of Bangladesh nearly seven years ago, authorities said. He “was admitted to the United States after presenting a passport displaying an F43 family immigrant visa in 2011,” Houlton said of Ullah, who “is a Lawful Permanent Resident … who benefited from extended family chain migration. ” Ullah was one of 141,501 immigrants who have entered the U. S. from Bangladesh through chain migration since 2005, according to the White House. What is chain migration? “Chain migration” occurs when immigrants enter the U. S. through sponsorship from family members already settled in the country. Critics have said it theoretically could trigger an endless flow of family members emigrating in. The term made headlines in recent months after another New York City terror suspect, Sayfullo Saipov, entered the U. S. through the Diversity Visa Program — a State Department program which allows a maximum of 50,000 people from “countries with historically low rates of immigration” to enter the U.
84	6	"Many Turkish diplomats, soldiers seeking asylum in Germany: At least 262 Turkish diplomats and army personnel have applied for asylum in Germany since a failed July coup that Turkey blames on supporters of a U. S. -based cleric, a spokeswoman for the German Interior Ministry said on Monday. The number of Turkish citizens seeking asylum in Germany rose dramatically after the failed coup and Turkey has warned its NATO ally to reject applications from soldiers it suspects of having links to exiled cleric Fethullah Gulen. Annegret Korff, a German Interior Ministry spokeswoman, said 151 applicants had diplomatic passports and 111 had no-fee passports, which are issued by governments to military personnel and other civil servants who are on official travel assignments. She did not specify whether the 262 also included diplomats' families, who would also have diplomatic status. ""Those figures are not actually statistically sound because they are based on the voluntary statements of the asylum applicants,"" Korff told a regular government news conference, suggesting the real number could be higher. Tensions are running high between the two NATO allies ahead of a referendum in Turkey next month that proposes expanding the powers of President Tayyip Erdogan. Germany infuriated Turkey by cancelling several campaign rallies by Turkish ministers on German soil, drawing accusations from Turkey of ""Nazi"" tactics."
93	7	Isla Fisher puts on a defiant display in a headscarf following decision to uphold US travel ban: Actress Isla Fisher has thrown her support behind the Muslim community in an empowered Instagram post following the US Supreme Court upholding President Trump's travel ban last week. The Tag star, 42, shared a snap of her smiling alongside three other women - all wearing headscarves - to the picture - sharing site on Tuesday. Isla posted the picture after the US Supreme Court ruled that the White House had the authority to limit travel into the United States from a short list of Muslim-majority countries. Showing her support: Isla Fisher, 42, put on a defiant display in a headscarf following US Supreme Court's decision to uphold Trump's travel ban last week The Oman-native positively beamed as she joked around with the unnamed women, in a soft pink shirt and billowing red patterned trousers. Isla - who is married to comedian Sacha Baron Cohen - also donned a headscarf while smiling with an older woman, as the two next to her flashed a big smile for the camera. Taking a stand against the recent news, Isla captioned the snap: 'The Supreme Court upholding the Travel Ban, ain’t gonna stop me from hanging wit’ my crew.
46	7	US agent goes on trial in Mexican teen cross-border killing: TUCSON, AZ (Tucson News Now) - A U. S. Border Patrol agent is going on trial on a second-degree murder charge this week in a rare Justice Department prosecution of a fatal cross-border Mexico shooting. Lonnie Swartz is charged with opening fire from the Arizona side of the border into Nogales, Mexico more than five years ago and killing 16-year-old Jose Antonio Elena Rodriguez. An autopsy showed the unarmed teen was hit 10 times, mostly from behind. The trial starts Tuesday, March 20 in U. S. District Court in Tucson. It comes amid President Donald Trump's immigration crackdown and pledge for a towering wall along the U. S. -Mexico border. Swartz' defense lawyers claim the teen was throwing rocks just before he was shot to create a distraction for a drug smuggling attempt. Prosecutors do not dispute that the teen threw rocks. Documents filed by prosecutors in 2016 reveal that Border Patrol Supervisor Leo Cruz-Mendez said he was surprised to see Swartz at the fence on the night of the shooting. Swartz had been assigned to work at a nearby port of entry. Cruz-Mendez told the grand jury he told Swartz everything was OK after the shooting, but the agent began to vomit.
314	6	Top Tech Execs Protest Trump's Immigration Ban: A little over a month ago, tech industry leaders met with then-President-elect Donald Trump to discuss ways of working together. Over the weekend, however, several top Silicon Valley executives criticized the White House for an executive order that temporarily bars people from seven Muslim-majority countries from entering the U.S. The executive order signed by Trump on Friday set off a weekend of air travel chaos, large public protests and rapid responses by attorneys seeking to help green card holders and other travelers who were detained at airports across the country. It also created new challenges for a tech industry that's led by many immigrants and employs many professionals from overseas. As of this morning, tech leaders who had made public statements critical of the executive order included Google CEO Sundar Pichai (pictured above), Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella, Lyft co-founders Logan Green and John Zimmer, Apple CEO Tim Cook, Twitter CEO Jack Dorsey and Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg. Tesla CEO Elon Musk and Uber CEO Travis Kalanick, both of whom are members of Trump's business advisory council, said they planned to raise the issue with other council members and discuss their concerns with the president.
47	4	"More NGOs follow MSF in suspending Mediterranean migrant rescues: ROME, Aug 13 (Reuters) - Two more aid groups have suspended migrant rescues in the Mediterranean, joining Doctors Without Borders, because they felt threatened by the Libyan coastguard. The Reuters Tariff Watch newsletter is your daily guide to the latest global trade and tariff news. Sign up here. Save the Children and Germany's Sea Watch said on Sunday their crews could no longer work safely because of the hostile stance of the Libyan authorities. Doctors Without Borders - or Medecins sans Frontieres - cited the same concern when it said on Saturday it would halt Mediterranean operations. ""We leave a deadly gap in the Mediterranean,"" Sea Watch's founder Michael Busch Heuer warned on Facebook, adding that Libya had issued an ""explicit threat"" against non-government organisations operating in the area around its coast. Tension has been growing for weeks between aid groups and the Italian government, which has suggested some NGOs are facilitating people smuggling and is trying to enhance the role of the Libyan coastguard in blocking migrant departures. This month, Italy began a naval mission in Libyan waters to train and support its coastguard, despite opposition from factions in eastern Libya that oppose the U."
186	7	"U.S. judge dismisses Tennessee refugee resettlement lawsuit: (Reuters) - A judge on Monday dismissed the state of Tennessee's lawsuit accusing the U.S. government of unconstitutionally coercing it into subsidizing the federal refugee resettlement program. Tennessee accused the government of invading its sovereignty by requiring it to provide Medicaid benefits to refugees, or else risk losing nearly $7 billion of Medicaid funds annually, equal to about 20 percent of its state budget, if it refused. It said this violated the 10th Amendment, which limits U.S. government powers to those delegated in the Constitution. Tennessee was the first state to sue on that basis. But in a 43-page decision, Chief Judge S. Thomas Anderson of the federal court in Jackson, Tennessee said the state lacked legal standing to sue. The judge called the prospect of a Medicaid funding loss ""speculative,"" and said Tennessee had taken no steps to deny Medicaid or other benefits to refugees. He also said Tennessee could not have been surprised that a growing number of refugees might boost state health care costs, and that it has ""always been foreseeable"" that periodic international humanitarian crises might cause an influx. ""None of the events described by plaintiffs represents a departure from the understanding pursuant to which Tennessee has accepted Federal Medicaid funds for over forty years--that it must cover lawfully present aliens, including refugees, under its Medicaid program,"" Anderson wrote."
296	7	EU warns Poland that it has 24 hours to start taking in refugees: Migrants and refugees queue to enter the Regugees centre near Porte de La Chapelle, AFP The EU has issued a 24-hour warning to Czech Republic, Hungary and Poland saying that they have to start taking in refugees under an EU migrant-sharing plan. Heartbreaking note found in debris of Grenfell Tower The three countries immediately rebuffed the threat and appeared ready to go to court. The European Commission said in a statement that it has repeatedly urged them to relocate refugees or at least pledge to do so under the legally-binding refugee plan agreed two years ago. But it said they have failed to take action ‘in breach of their legal obligations,’ and that it “has decided to launch infringement procedures. ” The plan to share 160,000 refugees in overwhelmed Italy and Greece among other European countries over two years was endorsed in September 2015 by a qualified majority vote. Police patrol a huge fire at the Grande-Synthe migrant camp outside the northern French city of Dunkirk late April 10, 2017 AFP It was seen as a major plank of the EU’s migration policy, and was lauded as a pan-European show of solidarity in 2015 when more than a million people arrived in Europe seeking sanctuary or jobs.
451	7	Busloads of migrants from 'caravan' arrive at U.S.-Mexico border: TIJUANA, Mexico (Reuters) - Dozens of Central American migrants from about 600 traveling in a “caravan” through Mexico arrived at the border city of Tijuana late on Tuesday despite warnings it would be futile to try to cross to claim asylum in the United States. A group of Central American migrants, moving in a caravan through Mexico, get on a microbus to get to the office of Mexico's National Institute of Migration to start the legal process and get temporary residence status for humanitarian reasons, in Hermosillo, Sonora state, Mexico April 24, 2018. REUTERS/Edgard Garrido By evening, two busloads of men, women and children arrived in Tijuana, a city that grazes southern California. U. S. President Donald Trump has ordered officials to repel them. The arrivals spilled into the streets and gazed toward San Diego, visible at spots through a rusty barrier or across a pedestrian bridge, exhausted after their trek that began a month ago near Mexico’s southern border with Guatemala. A group of Central American migrants, moving in a caravan through Mexico, ask for money to get on a microbus to the office of Mexico's National Institute of Migration to start the legal process and get temporary residence status for humanitarian reasons, in Hermosillo, Sonora state, Mexico April 24, 2018.
16	2	Confining children shouldn’t be part of the job for immigration agents: When asked about the controversy surrounding the separation of migrant children from their parents, Prime Minister Justin Trudeau remarked that “this is not the way we do things in Canada. ” He’s right, to a certain extent. The situation in Canada is not as stark as what we’re seeing in the United States where more than 2,900 children have been detained between May and June alone. Yet a total of 595 minors have been detained at Canadian immigration holding centres in the past three years. Forty-three were unaccompanied by an adult. We need to be asking why children — including Canadian citizens — are being held in jail-like detention facilities at all in this country, even if it’s with a parent. We should also be wondering how confining people who have committed no crime is impacting the workers tasked with placing them in conditions no one would want for their own families. I can’t help but imagine how I would feel if my 9-year-old daughter was held in a facility where she had little access to fresh air, education, and was constantly monitored by security personnel. The confinement of even one child should be unacceptable to every single one of us, particularly as we recall with shame this country’s legacy of residential schools.
329	6	"Joy Lee Han and the Chinese Immigrant Experience: One of the thousands of Chinese immigrants to the United States in the 1950s was nineteen-year-old Joy Lee, whose inspiring journey to a new world—and a new life—personifies the immigrant experience. Almost sixty years later, with US immigration policy in the headlines, Joy Lee Han will discuss her story, documented in her new book, ""Rice Paper Memoirs. "" In the program, Han will recount her early life in Kaifeng in north central China, describing both idyllic childhood days spent raising silkworms and tending her grandmother’s goats, and the terror of Pearl Harbor Day, when she was forced, with her parents and five siblings, to flee the American Baptist Compound where they lived. Nine years later she would find herself on the run again, this time sneaking across the Chinese border into Hong Kong on her way to America. Han also will discuss her experience writing a memoir, read from ""Rice Paper Memoirs,"" take questions, and sign copies of her book. Refreshments will be served."
494	7	Denver Rallied Behind Arriving Immigrants. Now Its Homeless Population Feels Shortchanged: For months, Venezuelan migrants had been arriving in Denver with nowhere to go. At first, they came in groups small enough to escape notice by most. A few immigrant aid groups with connections on the U.S.-Mexico border warned city officials to prepare for more but were ignored.
59	6	Still A Trickle, But Refugees Sick Of Exile Return To Syria: (AP) – A small but growing number of refugees have come back to Syria from among the more than 5. 4 million who fled since the civil war erupted in 2011. So far, they number in the tens of thousands, including some who made the arduous journey to Europe. The United Nations says the country is still not safe and even in parts where fighting has stopped, cities have suffered massive destruction. In early 2016, Ammar Maarawi bolted, desperate to escape Syria’s terrors. He paid smugglers and endured a dangerous sea crossing to Greece and an exhausting journey by train, bus and foot through Europe. Now, the 36-year-old is back home in Aleppo. He returned last summer. Depressed, homesick and dreading another winter, he couldn’t bear life in the German city of Suhl.
479	8	Immigration Protection Act Gets Out of Committee at Board of Legislators: WPCNR COUNTY CLARION-LEDGER. From the Westchester County Democratic Legislators. February 14, 2017: At last night’s Board of Legislators meeting, the Immigration Protection Act authored by Majority Leader Catherine Borgia (D-Ossining) and introduced by the Democratic Caucus passed its first test on the path to becoming law. Numerous members of the public came to the Board to publicly comment on their support for the Act and expressed hope that Legislators would do the same. The Act was referred to the Committees on Budget & Appropriations, Legislation, and Public Safety & Social Services. “This was the first step in passing this Act to ensure the humane treatment and safety of all Westchester residents becomes the law of the County,” said Majority Leader Borgia. “With all the news reports of immigration raids, even in New York, this Act is a step we must take to follow the law and make sure our County does not practice any type of discrimination. I thank Legislator Virginia Perez for her action to co-sponsor this bill; her voice is a welcome and needed one to help shepherd this bill to passage,” added Borgia. Also during last night’s meeting, Legislator Perez (above), the Board’s sole Latina legislator, added her name to the Act, bringing the total number of sponsors to eight.
347	7	Report: Italians seize NGO migrant rescue ship in Sicily: Report: Italians seize NGO migrant rescue ship in Sicily Photo: Montana, AP Image 1 of / 1 Caption Close Image 1 of 1 In this July 13, 2017 photo, migrants stand on the deck of the Spanish NGO's Proactiva Open Arms vessel at harbor at Porto Empedocle in the southern Italian island of Sicily. The Italian news agency ANSA says the NGO’s migrant rescue ship has been put under sequester by prosecutors’ orders, Sunday, March 18, 2018, in Pozzallo port, Sicily, where, a day earlier, the vessel brought 216 migrants it had rescued last week in the Mediterranean north of Libya. (Montana/ANSA via AP) less In this July 13, 2017 photo, migrants stand on the deck of the Spanish NGO's Proactiva Open Arms vessel at harbor at Porto Empedocle in the southern Italian island of Sicily. The Italian news agency ANSA says . more Photo: Montana, AP Report: Italians seize NGO migrant rescue ship in Sicily 1 / 1 Back to Gallery ROME (AP) — The Italian news agency ANSA says a Spanish non-governmental organization's migrant rescue ship has been sequestered in Sicily by prosecutors' orders. The seizure took place Sunday in Pozzallo port, where a day earlier the Proactiva Open Arms' vessel brought 216 migrants it had rescued last week in the Mediterranean north of Libya.
60	7	"The Latest: Immigrant freed from detention sees targeting: NEW YORK (AP) — The Latest on Ravi Ragbir, an immigrant activist facing deportation who was ordered freed from detention (all times local): 12:15 p.m. An immigrant activist freed from detention by a judge's order says immigration officials are engaging in ""psychological warfare"" by targeting him and other activists for detention and deportation. Ravi Ragbir (RAH'-vee RAHG'-beer) says U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement is trying to send a message to the immigrant community by taking high-profile activists into custody. ICE refutes that contention and says it doesn't target anyone ""based on advocacy positions they hold or in retaliation for critical comments they make."" Ragbir was released from detention in New York on Monday following a judge's ruling. He had been detained since mid-January and has been fighting deportation. He's trying to attend the State of the Union address in Washington on Tuesday, where immigration will almost certainly come up. 12:02 a.m. A federal judge who ordered a detained immigration rights activist facing deportation to be immediately released is raising ""grave concern"" over the argument that he had been targeted because of his political activities. U.S. District Judge Katherine B. Forrest ruled that Ravi Ragbir be freed after a hearing on Monday in Manhattan federal court."
444	6	U.N. worried over deportation of Cameroon separatists, faults Nigeria: The United Nations Refugee Agency, UNHCR, has officially commented on the deportation of Cameroonian separatists from Nigeria earlier this month. In a statement published on February 1, 2018; UNHCR said it was worried that Nigeria decided to deport people who had applied for asylum and more so at a time when they were engaging with the authorities. The statement faulted Nigeria for breaching international laws by forcibly deporting 47 suspected separatists. They also urged Yaounde to respect the rights of the detainees who are expected to be put before the courts. Below is the full statement UNHCR, the UN Refugee Agency, has learned with great concern of the forced return by Nigeria of 47 Cameroonians, who were handed over to the Cameroonian authorities on 26 January 2018. Most of the individuals in question had submitted asylum claims. Their forcible return is in violation of the principle of non-refoulement, which constitutes the cornerstone of international refugee law. The returns were carried out despite UNHCR’s efforts and engagement with the authorities. UNHCR reminds Nigeria of its obligations under international and Nigerian law, and urges the Nigerian Government to refrain from forcible returns of Cameroonian asylum-seekers back to their country of origin.
40	5	"In defensive move, Trump extends effective date of travel ban order: WASHINGTON — President Trump signed an order rebooting the effective date of his travel ban Wednesday to ensure that it still would suspend travel from six predominantly Muslim nations for 90 days if the Supreme Court lifts injunctions that have blocked its implementation. Trump's move was intended to prevent the high court from declining to hear the case because it's already been 90 days since the March 16 effective date of his revised executive order. Opponents of the ban had argued that the elapsed time made the case moot. In an unusual move, Trump used a presidential memorandum to amend his executive order ""in light of questions in litigation about the effective date of the enjoined provisions and in the interest of clarity. "" The memorandum comes two days after the 9th Circuit Court of Appeals upheld a lower court order blocking key provisions of the travel ban on nationals from Iran, Libya, Somalia, Sudan, Syria, and Yemen. But the court allowed the administration to proceed with a review of screening procedures for people entering the country — what Trump calls ""extreme vetting. "" Trump had intended those two provisions to go hand-in-hand."
245	7	For Immigrant Students, a New Worry: A Call to ICE: Data shows that students of color are disproportionately arrested at school, and advocates and educators contend that schools will increasingly rely on law enforcement to manage disciplinary issues if the guidance is rescinded. In Houston, Mr. Rivera-Sarmiento’s run-in with the law still divides the community. Some remain convinced that Mr. Rivera-Sarmiento’s status does not exempt him from criminal and immigration laws. Others believe the district unfairly subjected him to them. Mr. Rivera-Sarmiento said he was arrested at his school after he defended himself against an attack from a schoolmate. She had teased him incessantly, he and his lawyer said, on this day calling him a “wetback” before throwing a bottle of Gatorade at him. He pushed her down on the ground before running across the street to flee the area. When he returned to the school’s campus a few minutes later, he approached the school police officer to report what had happened. He was hoping for help, he said, but was escorted to the principal’s office in handcuffs. He was charged with misdemeanor assault. The officer took him to the county jail, run by the Harris County Sheriff’s Office, which is required by state law to cooperate with immigration enforcement.
251	8	Some Syrian Refugees Are Going Back to War Alongside Turkey: Last week, in a cafe in Kilis, a small Turkish city a few miles from the Syrian border, Lt. Col. Mohammed Hammadin was back for a few hours after leading an assault against Kurdish positions on a mountain south of the border. He is a former Syrian Army officer and a commander of the Levant Front, the largest faction of the Free Syrian Army. Colonel Hammadin, 40, watched as a Free Syrian Army journalist shared video footage showing the colonel, still panting from his exertions, his hand on the shoulder of a captured Kurdish fighter. He explained that his Syrian force shared aims with Turkey, first in wanting to see Mr. Assad go, but also in its dislike for the Kurdistan Workers’ Party, or P.K.K., which has waged a separatist insurgency for three decades against Turkey. Like most members of the Syrian opposition in Turkey, the colonel described all the various Kurdish militant groups, no matter which side of the border they were on, as part of the same P.K.K. organization. Photo “Turkey has a right to attack the P.K.K. for its own national security,” he said. “It has the right to clear the area because the P.K.K.
26	6	"Healthcare workers rally around Oakland nurse facing deportation: OAKLAND, Calif. (KGO) -- With just one day to go before Maria Mendoza Sanchez and husband Eusebio must leave the country, the Highland Hospital cancer nurse made a direct appeal to President Donald Trump, one parent to another. ""One of the things I admire about him s that he is a loving father, "" said Sanchez, standing amid supporters in front of Highland. ""He loves his kids very much and his grandchildren too. I just want him to realize how would he feel if all of a sudden something would happen to Ivanka. "" The Sanchez' were surrounded by other healthcare workers and supporters at a rally demanding the couple be allowed to stay in the United States. ""We have to show the world and this country that there's no such thing as an illegal human,"" said Josie Camacho with the Alameda Labor Council. ""We have families here, we have mothers. we have nurses. "" Last Thursday, U. S. Senator Dianne Feinstein met with the Sanchez family at their East Oakland home. Feinstein and U. S. Senator Kamala Harris are both working behind the scenes to try to persuade ICE, Immigration, and Customs Enforcement, to stop deportation proceedings."
285	6	"DACA Dreamer makes his dream come true by becoming a firefighter - NBC Right Now/KNDO/KNDU Tri-Cities, Yakima, WA |: MATTAWA, WA - After President Trump announced plans to end Deferred Actions for Childhood Arrivals, many Dreamers were left unsure of their future. Reporter Estreyita Rosales spoke with one Dreamer who has battled the Jolly Mountain Fire that has burned thousands of acres. Jose Tapia-Garcia is from Puebla, Mexico - he was only two years old when his family migrated to the U. S. Since then, they have been living in Mattawa. He is a firefighter and and EMT in Ephrata and Mattawa, and he's also a DACA recipient. something he is very proud of. ""There's always some hope for us Dreamers. DACA recipients,"" Tapia said. ""There's hundreds and thousands of us. "" While he was battling the Jolly Mountain Fire, he found out about President Trump's plan to end DACA, and he says he wasn't completely focused after the news. ""I wasn't at my physical or mental best with the team. "" Due to fear, no one knew he was a DACA recipient. not even his chiefs at work. Until one day. ""They found out once I posted a post on Facebook that went viral,"" said Tapia. ""Once I arrived back from the Jolly Mountain Fire, which was like a week later."
384	8	US church puts Jesus family in ‘ICE detention’ to protest Trump’s immigration policies: Sitting in the heart of downtown Indianapolis, on the lawn where Christ Church Cathedral erects its Nativity scene every year, is the holy family. But there’s no manger, shepherds, wise men or angels; just a chain-link fence surrounding the couple and the newborn. Inside the fence, Mary sits on a wooden block, cradling baby Jesus in her arms as Joseph stands next to her looking down. Christ Church Cathedral, one of the oldest churches in Indianapolis, is protesting the detention of families under the Trump administration’s “zero tolerance” policy of prosecuting as many people as possible for crossing into the United States illegally. Justice Department lawyers said in a filing last week that families could be detained for longer than the 20-day limit required by a previous court settlement. The Rev. Stephen Carlsen, the church’s dean and rector, said the news prompted the church to create a display showing a “detained” holy family. Joseph and Mary were not any different from migrant families fleeing violence from their home countries, he said. The couple fled to Egypt after Herod ordered the execution of baby boys in Bethlehem, according to the Bible. “People forget what that scene means,” Carlsen told The Washington Post.
85	8	Laser walls, smart sensors at India-Bangladesh border soon: A team of technical experts will handle a pilot project for deploying technological solutions in riverine areas and the areas that lack fences. THE BORDER Security Force is set to install laser walls and smart sensors along the Indo-Bangla international border in West Bengal to plug the porous riverine and unmanned terrain in the area in order to keep to check infiltration and terrorism.
62	8	Italian coast guards rescue migrants as vessel capsizes in the Mediterranean Sea: 63 migrants were rescued from the Mediterranean Sea by the Italian coast guard on Monday. Around 1000 migrants have been rescued in the Meditteranean in the last few days as calm weather conditions made it easier for vessels to depart. According to the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, 8296 migrants have arrived in Italy by sea in 2018.
52	7	2 wrongfully convicted Mexican immigrants face uncertain future: CHICAGO — Freedom was short-lived for two Mexican immigrants recently released after nearly 20 years in an Illinois prison when a judge ruled their confessions in a gruesome double-murder case were likely coerced. Gabriel Solache has been detailed after being released from prison Friday, and Arturo DeLeon-Reyes, who was freed in December, also is in detention. This time they’re awaiting deportation proceedings from Immigration and Customs Enforcement because they entered the country illegally. They are among several defendants who have walked free because their cases were handled by Reynaldo Guevara, a discredited former Chicago detective facing allegations that for years he beat and bullied defendants to obtain false confessions. DeLeon-Reyes’ attorney said he’s not sure he even made it past the fence outside the jail. “But I do know he did see the sun shine without handcuffs on and could see a park and all of those were a first for him in a really long time,” said Andrew Vail, a Jenner and Block attorney who worked on the case for free. DeLeon-Reyes and Solache’s release adds a chapter to what has become one of the most troubling stories of the Chicago Police Department in recent history.
361	6	Mexican prison escapee arrested in Arizona by Border Patrol agent: A Mexican prison escapee from Sonora, Mexico was found and arrested near Douglas, Arizona by United States Border Patrol agents. (Source: U.S. CBP) A Mexican prison escapee from Sonora, Mexico was found and arrested near Douglas, Arizona by United States Border Patrol agents. Larry Palomarez-Chavez, 39, was found by Douglas Station agents patrolling east of Douglas Thursday. He was with a group of five other Mexican nationals who illegally entered the U.S. A records check during processing revealed Palomarez-Chavez had a criminal history including kidnapping and an active warrant for escaping from a Mexican prison in November. He was transferred over to Mexican authorities in Nogales after being processed for immigration violations. The five Mexican nationals arrested with Palomarez-Chavez are being processed for immigration violations in accordance with Tucson Sector guidelines.
283	3	Malcolm Turnbull Facebook slammed for scrapping 457 visas: Malcolm Turnbull has been slammed on social media for scrapping 457 visas for skilled foreign workers with critics accusing him of racism and ignorance. More than 2,300 comments flooded the Prime Minister's Facebook page on Tuesday, with many of them negative. The Liberal leader was panned for abolishing a policy introduced by John Howard's government in 1996, which allowed overseas workers to stay in Australia for up to four years. Scroll down for video More than 2,300 comments flooded the PM's Facebook page after his 457 visa announcement Former 7News reporter Eammon Atkinson accused Malcolm Turnbull of milking xenophobia This woman accused the prime minister of seeking to bring back the White Australia policy Eammon Atkinson, a former 7News reporter in Brisbane now based in London, said the Australian Government was bowing to xenophobic tendencies. 'You're an absolute idiot pandering to racist Australia,' he said. 'What an embarrassment. ' Kit Mhairi went further and accused the prime minister of trying to bring back the White Australia policy, which operated from 1901 to 1973. 'Ugh, just call a spade a spade, you racist. New 457 for people with 'better English'? Just be honest and say this is the White Australia Policy 2.
435	6	Doklam Standoff: Army veteran Praveen Bakshi reveals Indian Brigadier crossed border, warned Chinese troops: The revelation was made by Lt Gen Praveen Bakshi (retd), the then General Officer Commanding-in-Chief, Eastern Command. A senior former Indian Army official has said that an Indian Brigadier had crossed the border and warned Chinese troops to step back at the time of Doklam Standoff. The revelation was made by Lt Gen Praveen Bakshi (retd), the then General Officer Commanding-in-Chief, Eastern Command, The Tribune reported. Bakshi also spoke on deployment of Army on internal security duties in Darjeeling during the Gorkhaland agitation. He said that Army can’t be expected to deal with a foreign adversary and also simultaneously look after a law and order problem inside the country. Bakshi, who retired in July this year, was passed over for promotion to the Chief of Army Staff. He said that China now considered India as a threat and has been now forced to deploy its troops along the Line of Actual Control. The senior army official made his comments while taking part in a panel discussion on “Strategic Perspective: China” at Chandigarh Literature Festival. Lt Gen Bakshi said that “National priority versus the state priority of politics came to the fore. ” “Whilst we were engaged, Darjeeling went up in flames due to some politics played by West Bengal.
12	6	Fg Addressing Rural-urban Migration Through Infrastructure, Agric Development, Says Fashola: The Federal Government of Nigeria’s commitment to Infrastructure and Agricultural development is meant to address rural-urban migration which has, over the years, led to the build-up of slums and satellite settlements around existing cities across the country, the Minister of Power, Works and Housing, Mr. Babatunde Fashola SAN, has said. Noting that one of the critical solutions identified by the Federal Government as a response to making the experience of urbanization more pleasant was to improve the quality of life, inclusion and opportunities in the rural areas, Fashola, who spoke at the London School of Economics Public Lecture hosted by Faroz Lalji Centre for African Studies and LSE Cities, said the huge investment in the two sectors was already impacting the rural areas through the creation of jobs, economic inclusion and participation in the construction value chain. Speaking on the theme, “Transforming Nigeria’s Urban Agenda”, the Minister said because most of the National Road Network Reconstruction now being undertaken in all the 36 States pass through or connect one or more urban or rural communities, employment opportunities are brought closer to the host communities, instead of them travelling to look for work in the cities while on completion, the roads would facilitate mobility.
319	7	"This New DACA Ruling Deals The Biggest Blow Yet To The Trump Administration: On Tuesday evening, a federal court judge's DACA ruling called out the Trump administration for failing to provide an acceptable reason for ending the program. DACA, or the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, allows undocumented who came to the United States as children to receive renewable reprieves from deportation — and authorization to work in the United States. Back in September, the Trump administration announced it would be ending DACA and characterized the program as unconstitutional. The new ruling, however, means the government will have to keep it alive, unless it can provide a better reason over the next 90 days for canceling it. As Politico reported, U. S. District Court Judge John Bates ruled that the legal explanation for ending DACA that was provided by the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) was not sufficient to justify eradicating the program. As Bates wrote in his opinion (as reported by Politico), ""DACA’s rescission was arbitrary and capricious because the Department failed adequately to explain its conclusion that the program was unlawful. "" Bates is now the third federal judge who has rejected the Trump administration's legal justification for ending DACA. While the administration technically ended the DACA program in March, the government has continued to renew applications for existing DACA recipients, as required by court orders."
18	7	Woman charged after being found with 6 near Canada border: HIGHGATE, Vt. (AP) — The U. S. Border Patrol says a North Carolina woman is facing a charge she was transporting people into the United States who didn't have permission to be in the country. A complaint filed in U. S. District Court in Burlington says Border Patrol agents were alerted early Sunday that six people had walked into the United States from Canada in Highgate, Vermont. Agents spotted an SUV driven by 31-year-old Carmen Melari Ferrufino Perdomo, of Charlotte, North Carolina, a U. S. citizen originally from Honduras. It's unclear if she has an attorney. In the car were six Mexican citizens who told investigators they had crossed into the United States that night. The Border Patrol says the area where the group was first spotted has seen multiple smuggling events in the past few weeks.
407	7	Syrian asylum seeker planned ISIS attack, German prosecutors say: A Syrian man has been arrested in Germany on suspicion of seeking 180,000 euros ($190,000) from the Islamic State group (ISIS) to buy vehicles that he intended to use for one or several bomb attacks, authorities said Monday. The 38-year-old, who came to Germany in late 2014 as an asylum-seeker, was arrested on Saturday in Saarbruecken, close to the French border. He is accused of collecting money to be used by him or someone else to carry out murder. Prosecutors accuse him of contacting someone in Syria “who he knew was in a position to obtain ISIS money for terror financing” last month via the Telegram encrypted communication service. The suspect allegedly asked for 180,000 euros so that he could buy and repaint vehicles that he intended to fit out with explosives before driving them into crowds. The case against him was bolstered by an informant who went to Germany’s Federal Criminal Police Office, chats on the suspect’s smartphone and his own statements, “insofar as they can be followed,” prosecutors said in a statement. The Syrian is alleged to have told the financier that each vehicle would cost 22,500 euros ($23,500), and that 400 to 500 kilograms (882 to 1,100 pounds) of explosives would be placed in each car, they added.
68	8	60 migrants refused by Italy and Malta arrive in Barcelona: BARCELONA, Spain (AP) — A rescue ship carrying 60 migrants has arrived in a Spanish port after being refused entry by Italy and Malta, the second time in a month that a humanitarian group has been forced to travel for days to unload people rescued in the central Mediterranean. The Open Arms ship docked Wednesday in the northeastern port of Barcelona, where the group — including 5 women, a 9-year-old toddler and four teenagers — will be going through health checks and identification procedures. The Spanish aid group Proactiva Open Arms said the migrants come from 14 countries and are in good health. Doctors Without Borders says more than 500 people have died in the Mediterranean since the Aquarius, another rescue ship, was blocked from ports in Italy and Malta in June.
352	6	"MSF suspends Mediterranean rescues as migrant dispute mounts: * MSF says it is being threatened by Libya coastguard * Migration is dominating political agenda in Italy * MSF refused to sign Rome's Code of Conduct for NGOs By Gavin Jones ROME, Aug 12 (Reuters) - Doctors Without Borders (MSF) said on Saturday it was suspending its migrant rescues in the Mediterranean because it felt threatened by the Libyan coastguard and the Italian government's policies have made its job harder. The aid group's decision is the latest development in mounting tensions between Rome and NGOs as migration dominates Italy's political agenda ahead of elections early next year. ""We are suspending our activities because now we feel that the threatening behaviour by the Libyan coastguard is very serious . we cannot put our colleagues in danger,"" the president of MSF's Italian arm Loris De Filippi told Reuters. Almost 600,000 migrants have arrived in Italy over the past four years, the vast majority setting sail from lawless Libya in flimsy vessels operated by people smugglers. More than 13,000 migrants have died trying to make the crossing. Charity boats have played a growing role in rescues, picking up more than a third of all migrants brought ashore so far this year against less than one percent in 2014."
125	8	Greek Doctors Say Lesbos NGO’s Failing to Aid Refugees: ATHENS – Greek State hospital doctors on the refugee-overrun eastern Aegean island of Lesbos said they’ve been burdened with health care for them while subsidized non-governmental organizations (NGO’s) aren’t doing enough. The NGOs are being backed with funds from the European Union while Greek islands have essentially been left on their own to deal with nearly 14,000 refugees and migrants locked there with the suspension of an EU swap deal with Turkey, whose coast is near the islands. Lesbos’ union of state hospital doctors said the two refugee camps at Moria and Kara Tepe do not have any pediatricians and all children there who become ill are taken to the hospitals which are seriously understaffed, they said in a statement. The doctors said that the NGOs “get paid handsomely” by the EU to help refugees but claimed claimed they had “totally failed to provide humane conditions for the refugees. ” Several human rights groups have complained about conditions at Greek refugee camps, particularly Moria and Elliniko, the abandoned former international airport in southern Athens.
210	7	Tech companies are applying for more h-1b visas: CHARTS: For 15 years in a row, the number of applicants for H-1B work visas has far exceeded the program's cap of 85,000 available visas. The H-1B program, which allows US companies to bring in foreign workers in specialized fields like math, science and engineering, has long been a magnet for controversy. Tech companies say they need the visas to get scarce talent, while labor advocates contend that it allows companies to hire cheaper foreign workers instead of Americans. Amazon, Microsoft, and Google are just a few of the tech giants that rely on the H-1B visa to snatch up coveted tech talent, and as this chart by Statista shows, this trend has only increased in recent years. Among five prominent tech companies, each saw an increase in approved applications for H-1B working visas from 2016 to 2017, with Amazon taking up the largest share of applications.
498	6	An Immigrant Died Building a Ship for the U.S. Government. His Family Got Nothing: On the morning of Jan. 22, 2024, Elmer De León Pérez descended deep into the bowels of a ship that he was helping to build in Houma, Louisiana. Pérez was a welder, working to construct one of the U.S. government’s most sophisticated ships, an $89 million vessel for tracking hurricanes and conducting oceanographic research. It was funded by President Joe Biden’s signature climate legislation.
97	6	"Austin school teachers have been warned against giving students information about immigrant rights: After at least 51 undocumented immigrants were arrested in Austin and San Antonio last Thursday and Friday, in a broad and controversial raid by Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) agents in at least six states, some students in Austin started staying home from school out of fear of what could happen to them or their families. A local teachers' organization, Education Austin, started providing its members with information for students on immigration lawyers and what to do if ICE agents question them of come to their doors — and on Tuesday, the Austin Independent School District told teachers and other public school employees to stop it. Teachers, school administrators, and staff ""may not speak to political affiliation, views, protests, advocacy or other controversial issues or topics that may arise while on district property,"" said a memo sent around from the Austin ISD legal counsel, warning that state legislators are watching. ""Austin ISD is unique in that it is the district of the Texas capital and is know for being politically and socially active; therefore its activities, statements, and reactions are immensely scrutinized,"" the memo cautioned. ""This increased oversight that is not experienced by all school districts emphasizes the need and importance for district employees to be meticulous and very calculated in their actions and responses to controversial events."
69	6	Israelis protesting pending deportation of African migrants: JERUSALEM (AP) — An Israeli government plan to deport tens of thousands of African migrants has sparked an unexpected backlash from liberal Israelis and their American Jewish allies who say Israel — established in the wake of the Holocaust — should never be turning away those in need. The showdown could come to a head on April 1, when the state plans to start expelling Africans, some of whom have been in Israel for years, to an uncertain fate. The government insists all but a select few are economic migrants. But critics charge they are mostly bona fide refugees fleeing persecution and that kicking them out would threaten their lives. In recent weeks, Israeli pilots, doctors, writers, former ambassadors and Holocaust survivors have all urged the government to halt the deportation plan.
332	10	Germany takes 10,000 refugees from UN resettlement program: Photo: Michael Sohn, AP Image 1 of / 9 Caption Close Image 1 of 9 Filippo Grandi, left, UN High Commissioner for Refugees, gestures during a joint statement with German Chancellor Angela Merkel, right, prior to a meeting in Berlin, Germany, Monday, April 23, 2018. Filippo Grandi, left, UN High Commissioner for Refugees, gestures during a joint statement with German Chancellor Angela Merkel, right, prior to a meeting in Berlin, Germany, Monday, April 23, 2018. Photo: Michael Sohn, AP Image 2 of 9 German Chancellor Angela Merkel attends a joint statement with Filippo Grandi, UN High Commissioner for Refugees, prior to a meeting in Berlin, Germany, Monday, April 23, 2018. German Chancellor Angela Merkel attends a joint statement with Filippo Grandi, UN High Commissioner for Refugees, prior to a meeting in Berlin, Germany, Monday, April 23, 2018. Photo: Michael Sohn, AP Image 3 of 9 Filippo Grandi, left, UN High Commissioner for Refugees, and German Chancellor Angela Merkel, right, arrive for a statement prior to a meeting in Berlin, Germany, Monday, April 23, 2018. Filippo Grandi, left, UN High Commissioner for Refugees, and German Chancellor Angela Merkel, right, arrive for a statement prior to a meeting in Berlin, Germany, Monday, April 23, 2018.
214	3	The migrant surge on the border isn't a crisis, it's just a fiasco: Everybody stay calm, everything’s under control. As Canadian Forces teams were busy building a tent village last week to accommodate a surge of mostly Haitian asylum claimants crossing the border from upstate New York into Quebec near Saint-Bernard-de-Lacolle, that’s what we were still being told by Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, Immigration Minister Ahmed Hussen and Quebec Premier Premier Philippe Couillard. Relax. We can handle it. Of course we can handle it. Even if each of the 60,000 Haitians in the United States who are currently counting down the days to their deportation orders decides to head north and walk across the porous Canadian border into Quebec, we would be able to handle it. Canada’s shambolic immigration and refugee system, with all its false boasts of orderly righteousness and its make-believe coherence, will continue to trundle along in its mostly unintelligible, sometimes brazenly corrupt and ordinarily nonsensical fashion. So yes, stay calm. The Quebec asylum-seeker surge is not yet even close to a crisis. It’s just a fiasco. It’s business as usual. And everything is definitely not under control. The northbound Haitians are not mysteriously unaware that two years ago, Canada ended the same temporary status that the United States offered Haitians following their country’s devastating 2010 earthquake—a status the Trump administration is now determined to replace with deportation orders by January.
107	7	"Migrant boat capsizes off Libya; 90 feared dead, mostly Pakistanis: An estimated 90 migrants are feared to have drowned off the coast of Libya after a smuggler's boat capsized early on Friday, leaving three known survivors and 10 bodies washed up on shore, the International Organisation for Migration (IOM) said. Survivors told aid workers that most of the migrants on board were Pakistanis, who make up a growing number of those attempting the hazardous voyage across the Mediterranean to Italy from North Africa, IOM spokeswoman Olivia Headon said. ""They have given an estimate of 90 people who drowned during the capsize, but we still need to verify the exact number of people who lost their lives during the tragedy,"" Headon, speaking from Tunis, told a Geneva news briefing. ""What has been reported to us is that it's mostly Pakistanis who were on board the boat, but we still need to verify the nationalities and how many from what country,"" she said. Ten bodies have washed up on Libyan shores so far, two of them Libyans and the rest Pakistanis, she said. ""I believe the Libyan coastguard is looking for other survivors off the coast,"" Headon added. Another IOM spokesman, Leonard Doyle, told Reuters Television that the boat was believed to have left shore on Thursday before capsizing early on Friday morning."
5	8	Haitian asylum seekers crossing Quebec border from U.S. may head to Toronto, lawyer says: An immigration lawyer says as many as one in five Haitian asylum seekers crossing the U. S. -Canada border in Quebec may make their way to Toronto. Joel Etienne says while it's an estimate, the city is a big draw for the thousands of migrants leaving the U. S. behind. Officials say upwards of 700 people a day — a large percentage of whom are Haitian — have been streaming across the border at Saint-Bernard-de-Lacolle, Que. , before being taken into custody and sent to Montreal, where thousands are now staying at a temporary welcome centre at the Olympic Stadium. Toronto, meanwhile, has been dealing with an influx of newcomers all year. The number of refugees using the city's emergency shelter system is now more than double what it was last year, with an average of 1,223 people per night seeking help in July according to city staff. Etienne says there's a key difference between many of the Haitian asylum seekers arriving now and those fleeing places like Syria. Many, he said, were well-established in American cities, like Miami, and are only leaving because of the U. S. administration's threats to deport them back to Haiti.
418	6	Deportation reprieve for Mexican academics at Durham University: The Home Office has reversed a decision to deport two Durham University academics after a public outcry. Dr Ernesto Schwartz-Marin and Dr Arely Cruz-Santiago had been issued a 14-day notice to leave the UK following an apparent breach in their Tier 2 visa for humanitarian work in Mexico. The couple had lived in the UK for more than 10 years with their 11-year-old daughter Camilla. A Home Office spokesman said: “Following a review of the initial decision, Mr Schwartz-Marin has been informed that the applications of him and his wife for indefinite leave to remain have been approved. ” An online petition signed by more than 70,000 people to reverse the “unfair” decision garnered large-scale public attention. The online petition read: “Their case is very distressing on a personal level, but it also sets a dangerous precedent for other non-UK academics working in universities and doing humanitarian fieldwork abroad. ” The couple carried out humanitarian work in Mexico in 2014-15 building a DNA database to help locate victims who had gone missing because of drug cartel violence. This led the Home Office to issue Mr Schwartz-Marin and his family with a deportation notice.
103	7	"Report commends Jordan’s ‘rapid’ legal response to refugee crisis: AMMAN — The Arab Renaissance for Democracy and Development (ARDD) on Thursday issued a report on Jordan's legal response to the Syrian refugee crisis, which commended the efforts of several governmental agencies in partnership with UNHCR for their ""rapid"" support. Presented at the third International Conference for Refugees in the Middle East, held at Yarmouk University last week, the study highlighted that the legal sections established at the refugee camps in Jordan have been “internationally recognised” for the several branches that they put at the disposal of refugees, comprising specialised services such as juvenile courts or family protection. ""Jordan has exerted many efforts to provide services in the best interest of refugees since the very beginning of the crisis,"" ARDD CEO Samar Muhareb told The Jordan Times, noting that ""along with legal aid providers and UNHCR, the Jordanian government has established coordination mechanisms to provide protection services free of charge, in addition to ensuring that refugees hold all the necessary documentation in order to facilitate the application of the rule of law"". The study pointed out that the concerned parties have taken measures to guarantee the safety and quality of legal procedures by providing legal awareness programmes to beneficiaries, as well as improving the capacities of lawyers and other legal service providers."
294	8	Zambia’s Kenani transit centre now hosts more than 10, 000 Congolese refugees: The number of refugees fleeing violence in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) and being hosted at the Kenani transit centre in the north of Zambia has now passed the 10,000 mark since August this year. An the UN refugee agency – UNHCR – is appealing for more funding to relocate the new arrivals from Kenani, which is the Zambia’s largest refugee transit facility with about 10,065 people in it. “We passed the 10, 000 mark on Saturday, and more Congolese refugees are coming in from Chiengi,” confirmed UNHCR Representative to Zambia Pierrine Aylara. The Nchelenge District Administration has agreed to expand the Kenani transit center, by providing more space. The newly allocated space can now accommodate an additional 1,000 refugee families/5,000 individuals as efforts are continued to open a new permanent refugee settlement within the coming weeks. Meanwhile, the Government, UNHCR and partners, are working to have Congolese refugees at Kenani transit centre as well as new arrivals relocated within weeks to a new permanent refugee settlement – called Mantapala – within Nchelenge District, with more space for improved facilities.
264	2	Fearing the Worst, China Plans Refugee Camps on North Korean Border: Lu Kang, China’s Foreign Ministry spokesman, told reporters on Monday that he was unaware of the plan for the refugee camps, but he did not deny their existence. “I haven’t seen such reports,” Mr. Lu said. Changbai County officials did not answer telephone calls on Monday, and an executive at China Mobile in Changbai declined to discuss the matter. The China Mobile document said that a manager of the company inspected five sites on Dec. 2 at the request of the Changbai County government. The company was asked to ensure there was viable internet service in the areas that would be used for the camps. “Because the situation on the China-North Korea border has intensified lately, Changbai County government plans to set up five refugee sites in Changbai,” China Mobile said in the document. The areas designated for the refugee camps were on state-owned land, and temporary housing had already been constructed at several sites, according to a local businessman who requested anonymity for fear of angering the local government. Three county villages were named in the document as locations for the camps. The cities of Tumen and Hunchun will also house refugees, according to the businessman.
490	5	Boxed Up: A Portrait of an Immigrant Community Living Under Threat of Deportation A blender, still in its box, won at a grocery store raffle. Framed photos from a child’s birthday party. A rabbit-hair felt sombrero and a pair of brown leather boots that cost more than half a week’s pay.
219	8	"Aid groups cut death toll from migrant shipwreck off Libya: GENEVA Five migrants are believed to have died when a rubber boat sank off the coast of Libya on Tuesday, aid groups said on Friday, adding that reports earlier this week that many more had been killed were wrong. Probably still in shock after he was taken to the Italian island of Lampedusa, a 16-year-old Gambian boy told humanitarian workers on Wednesday he was the only survivor of the wreck, Cecile Pouilly, a spokeswoman for the UNHCR, told reporters. When 140 others disembarked at a different port on Thursday, several identified the boy as having been on the same boat. ""So we have pretty good information that this tragedy didn't occur as was initially reported,"" said Joel Millman, spokesman for the International Organization for Migration. ""We try to be as conservative as possible and only report what we know. This was not one of those cases. "" Some 650 migrants are estimated to have died trying to reach Europe by crossing the Mediterranean so far this year, and arrivals in Italy are up about 30 percent from the same period last year."
280	6	"The Latest: Migrant exodus from Libya amid warm weather: BERLIN — The Latest on migration issues in Europe (all times local): 2:05 p. m. Aid groups say the recent spike in Mediterranean migrant rescues corresponds with improved weather conditions and the looming start of beefed-up Libyan coast guard patrols that could block migrants from reaching Europe. Over Easter weekend, rescue ships plucked some 8,360 people from 55 different rubber dinghies and wooden boats off Libya's coast. Thirteen bodies were also recovered. While such numbers are not unusual, they come as Italy is due to deliver patrol boats to Libya in coming weeks as part of a new EU-blessed migration deal. An International Organization of Migration spokesman says smugglers are telling customers: ""You have to hurry up and leave the country right now because otherwise in a couple of months you will be rescued by the Libyan coast guard and you will be sent back. "" ___ 12:30 p. m. German authorities say there were 169 violent offences against homes for asylum-seekers last year, almost as many as in 2015, though the figures sank as the year progressed. The Federal Criminal Police Office said Tuesday that the number of violent offences compared with 177 the previous years."
254	3	"Indianapolis church places Mary, Joseph, baby Jesus inside cage to protest Trump immigration policies: Indianapolis church places Mary, Joseph, baby Jesus inside cage to protest Trump immigration policies An Indiana church on Tuesday placed statues of Mary, Joseph and the baby Jesus inside a barricaded fence as a way to protest President Trump‘s immigration policies. RTV6, a local ABC affiliate, reported that Christ Church Cathedral in Indianapolis locked up the statues as part of its “Every Family is Holy” campaign. The ABC affiliate notes that the campaign is intended to bring awareness to and rebuke Trump’s “zero tolerance” policy at the U. S. -Mexico border. Holy Family #Detention: Indy's @CCCathedralIndy puts Joseph, Mary & Jesus inside a fence on its lawn. When asked how long the display will remain, Dean @Steve_Carlsen said ""My greatest hope would be that we, our nation, will search its heart & say this is not who we want to be. "" pic. twitter. com/AgcOZv4xSz — Michael R. Hartz (@MikeThePhotog) July 3, 2018 “They were a homeless family with nowhere to stay,” Carlson told the news outlet of Joseph, Mary and Jesus. – READ MORE Help Support True Pundit’s Independent Voice by Contributing Today! $ Donation Amount: We can only deliver independent news & Intel with your support."
465	8	Lone migrant rescue ship keeps up patrols off Libya: ON BOARD THE AQUARIUS: On board the Aquarius, one of the last NGO ships still operating off the coast of Libya, rescuers are worried they are not seeing any more boatloads of migrants at sea. Libya’s navy, last week, ordered foreign vessels to stay out of a coastal “search-and-rescue zone” for migrants headed for Europe, a measure aimed at non-governmental organizations (NGOs) it accuses of facilitating traffickers in illegal migration. One by one, the NGOs halted operations, except the Aquarius. The 68-meter orange boat, formerly used by the German coast guard, sailed alone off the Libyan coast on Sunday. “For the moment, we are continuing our patrol operation in international waters,” said Nicola Stall, search and rescue coordinator for the Aquarius, which is operated by SOS Mediterranee and Doctors Without Borders (MSF). And so the Aquarius team of rescuers keeps up its two-hour rotation, day and night, to watch for migrants floating on overcrowded and unseaworthy boats. MSF workers, meanwhile, check their stocks of medications, while other volunteers give the bridge a fresh coat of paint. As they wait, they are concerned about the calm sea and the favorable winds of the past few days.
427	7	"Number of non-criminal undocumented immigrants arrested under Donald Trump more than doubles: The number of immigrants with no criminal records arrested has more than doubled under President Donald Trump. Immigrations and Customs Enforcement made 21,362 arrests from January to mid-March, representing a rise of roughly one-third compared to 16,104 during the same period last year, The Washington Post reported. The number of non-criminals arrested doubled to 5,441, suggesting Mr Trump's administration is enforcing immigration laws more aggressively than the previous administration. ""As [Homeland Security] Secretary [John F] Kelly has made clear, ICE will no longer exempt classes or categories of removable aliens from potential enforcement,"" ICE spokeswoman Jennifer Elzea said in a statement. Audible groans as Trump announces agency solely to report immigrant crime Mr Trump previously issued executive orders putting all undocumented immigrants at risk of deportation, but told CBS News' 60 Minutes he would focus on criminals before deciding what to do with undocumented immigrants, who he described as ""terrific people"". He has also previously suggested he would publish a weekly list of crimes committed by immigrants. The controversial orders Donald Trump has already issued 8 show all The controversial orders Donald Trump has already issued 1/8 Trump and the media White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer takes questions during the daily press briefing Getty Images 2/8 Trump and the Trans-Pacific Partnership Union leaders applaud US President Donald Trump for signing an executive order withdrawing the US from the Trans-Pacific Partnership negotiations during a meeting in the Roosevelt Room of the White House in Washington DC Getty 3/8 Trump and the Mexico wall People protest against US President Donald Trump's inauguration next to a fake wall with a Mexican national flag and a dummy representing him in Mexico City Getty Images 4/8 Trump and the Mexico wall A US Border Patrol vehicle sits waiting for illegal immigrants at a fence opening near the US-Mexico border near McAllen, Texas."
336	2	When Dems were immigration moderates, waking up to Wolff’s sleaze and other comments: Policy wonk: When Dems Were Immigration Moderates President Trump’s immigration proposals are sure to be met with nothing but continued Democratic resistance, predicts City Journal’s Howard Husock. Yet back in 2009, he recalls, “moderate Democrats signed on to a serious immigration proposal that overlapped in several ways with the president’s plan. ” It suggested enforcement of E-Verify and limits on what’s now called “chain migration. ” When Trump proposed this, however, “Democrats hooted and booed,” showing “how quickly the Left has moved in a radical direction. ” Indeed, back in 1997, the Jordan Commission actually proposed a one-third reduction of legal immigration — which President Bill Clinton agreed to. Yet “it’s hard to imagine prominent Democrats endorsing such plans today,” even though “doing so could go a long way toward defusing the bad feelings about immigration policy. ” Conservative: Media Waking Up to Michael Wolff Sleaze MSNBC’s Mika Brzezinski is winning scattered praise for booting anti-Trump author Michael Wolff from her show for spreading the rumor that UN Ambassador Nikki Haley and President Trump are having an affair. But “hold your applause,” cautions Becket Adams at the Washington Examiner. After all, “Wolff’s penchant for factually challenged narratives and lurid innuendo was well-known long before the Haley episode.
484	4	Some Americans Have Already Been Caught in Trump’s Immigration Dragnet. More Will Be: About a week after President Donald Trump took office, Jonathan Guerrero was sitting at the Philadelphia car wash where he works when immigration agents burst in. The agents didn’t say why they were there and didn’t show their badges, Guerrero recalled. So the 21-year-old didn’t get a chance to explain that although his parents were from Mexico, he had been born right there in Philadelphia.
252	7	UIndy forensic team to help ID migrants in Texas: INDIANAPOLIS (WISH) — A forensic team of faculty and students from the University of Indianapolis are heading to Texas for a unique opportunity. They are traveling to Brooks County, Texas, to help remove bodies of buried migrants. Dr. Krista Latham, a UIndy associate professor of biology and anthropology, has led a group to the area since 2013. The team is expected to remove bodies of hundreds of people who died while migrating from Latin America to the United States in the last decade. In the past, Latham and students have assisted a team in Texas identify the bodies and notify family members of the deaths. The group hopes to reveal the names of more than 100 human remains on this trip. It’s a brand new experience for five of the six students participating this year. “This is not only a scientific mission but there also is a moral obligation to this work,” Latham said. “This has turned in to a human rights mission. ” The trip lasts 10 days. Share this: Facebook Twitter Google Email Print More Pinterest Like this: Like Loading.
135	8	Syrian rebels, civilians leave Lebanon border area for home: BEIRUT — The media arm of Lebanon's militant Hezbollah group says hundreds of Syrian rebels and civilians have started leaving the Lebanon-Syria border area after a deal was reached for their departure. The Central Military Media says buses carrying members of the Levant People's Brigades rebel group started moving on Monday from the badlands of the Lebanese border town of Arsal in the direction of the Syrian village of Fleeta. The evacuation comes nearly two weeks after more than 7,000 Syrians, many of them al-Qaida-linked fighters and their families, left Arsal, following an offensive by Hezbollah.
94	3	"Rehabilitation of migrants extended up to March 2020: Cabinet: The Union Cabinet, chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, on Wednesday gave its nod for the continuation, up to 2020, of eight schemes of the Home Ministry for relief and rehabilitation of migrants under the umbrella scheme ""Relief and Rehabilitation of Migrants and Repatriates"". Addressing the media, Union Minister Rajnath Singh said the financial implication for this decision is Rs 3,183 crore for the period 2017-18 to 2019-20. ""The year-wise phasing of the scheme will be Rs 911 crore in 2017-18, Rs 1,372 crore in 2018-19 and Rs 900 crore in 2019-2020. "" A Home Ministry statement said: ""The eight schemes approved for continuance are already in operation and the benefits under each will be extended to intended beneficiaries in accordance with the approved criterion. "" The eight schemes were started, at different times, to enable the migrants and repatriates, who have suffered on account of displacement, to earn a reasonable income and to facilitate their inclusion in mainstream economic activities, the statement. These schemes provide assistance for relief and rehabilitation to displaced families from Pakistan-administered Kashmir and Chhamb; Sri Lankan refugees, Bru families lodged in relief camps in Tripura, Bru or Reang families from Tripura to Mizoram, 1984 anti-Sikh riot victims; civilian victims of terrorists, communal, Maoist violence and cross border firing and mine or improvised explosive device blasts on Indian territory and repatriation of Indian prisoners from abroad; and grant-in-aid to Central Tibetan Relief Committee."
160	8	High court nixes periodic hearings for detained immigrants: By JESSICA GRESKO WASHINGTON — A divided Supreme Court ruled Tuesday that immigrants the government has detained and is considering deporting aren’t entitled by law to periodic hearings on whether they should be released on bond. The case the justices ruled in is a class-action lawsuit brought by immigrants who’ve spent long periods in custody. The group includes some people facing deportation because they’ve committed a crime and others who arrived at the border seeking asylum. The San Francisco-based U. S. Court of Appeals for the 9th Circuit had ruled for the immigrants, saying that under immigration law they had a right to periodic bond hearings. The appeals court said the detained immigrants generally should get bond hearings after six months in detention, and then every six months if they continue to be held. But the Supreme Court, splitting along liberal-conservative lines, reversed that decision Tuesday and sided with the Trump administration, which had argued against the 9th Circuit’s decision, a position also taken by the Obama administration. Justice Samuel Alito wrote for five conservative-leaning justices that periodic bond hearings are not required by immigration law. He said that the court of appeals had adopted “implausible constructions” of the immigration law provisions at issue.
425	9	"LAPD, Sheriff's Department Distance Officers From Federal Immigration Enforcement: The LAPD and the Sheriff's Department are putting new limits regarding their immigration policy as a result of the new Sanctuary State Law. Eric Leonard reports for NBC4 news on Friday, Feb. 2, 2018. (Published Friday, Feb. 2, 2018) The LAPD and Sheriff's Department are distancing officers from anything connected to federal immigration enforcement. A new Los Angeles Police Department Order instructs that officers should not question most people about their place of birth, though that changes if the person gets arrested. ""Place of Birth"" was a piece of information routinely collected and added to an LAPD database. ACLU senior staff attorney Michael Kaufman, who works on immigrants' rights issues, says the place-of-birth question could make it seem like local police were asking about a person's immigration status, and he says he worries that information could be accessed by outside agencies. ""This obviously creates a lot of apprehension, on behalf of people interacting with the police, that they're being questioned about their immigration status, and potentially a record that could be used against them if that information was to be shared with immigration agencies,"" he said. While the LAPD appears to be the first large department to conform to SB-54's restrictions, Kaufman says other police agencies will have to do the same."
2	7	"American border patrol agents stopping and boarding Canadian vessels: spokesman: GRAND MANAN, N. B. -- A little-known cross-border dispute that has simmered between Canada and the United States since the late 1700s is now approaching the boiling point. In the past two weeks, at least 10 Canadian fishing boats from New Brunswick have been intercepted by U. S. Border Patrol agents while fishing in the disputed waters around Machias Seal Island, a spokesman for the fishermen says. Laurence Cook, chairman of the advisory board for Lobster Fishing Area 38, said Wednesday that some Canadian vessels were boarded by American agents who asked about possible illegal immigrants. ""There's been a bit of a misunderstanding there somewhere,"" Cook said in an interview. ""They're in international waters, so border patrol shouldn't be boarding Canadian vessels. "" Machias Seal Island, which is about 19 kilometres southwest of Grand Manan Island and east of Maine, is in a disputed area known as the Grey Zone, where lobster fishermen from both Canada and the United States have long fished side by side. The small island is a flat, treeless piece of rock, which includes a large colony of puffins and a lighthouse that is manned by two Canadian lightkeepers year-round."
38	8	"Court: Immigrant children don't have right to free lawyer: SAN FRANCISCO (AP) — Immigrant children are not entitled to attorneys paid for by the government when facing deportation, a federal appeals court ruled Monday. The judges rejected a claim by the American Civil Liberties Union and immigrant groups that children have a constitutional due process right to a free attorney. A system already exists to give the children a fair hearing, and requiring the government to provide free attorneys would be an expense that would ""strain an already overextended immigration system,"" a three-judge panel of the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals said. The plaintiffs said many of the thousands of children the government seeks to deport each year appear before judges without a lawyer because they can't afford one or find one to take their cases for free. The result is an unfair process that pits children with no ability to navigate complex legal issues against seasoned government attorneys, the groups say. Ahilan Arulanantham, legal director at the ACLU of Southern California, said the group had not decided its next step. ""The statistical evidence, which the court acknowledged, is that children are many, many times more likely to win their cases if they have legal representation,"" he said."
273	5	"Pakistan extends visa of Indian woman who married, embraced Islam during her visit: LAHORE: Pakistan has extended for six more months the visa of an Indian woman, who had embraced Islam after marrying a local man during her visit to Pakistan to attend the Baisakhi festival, according to a media report today. Kiran Bala, who after converting to Islam has taken the name Amna Bibi, had applied for a Pakistani citizenship and extension to her visa. Bala, who hailed from Punjab's Hoshiarpur district, had arrived in Lahore by a special train on April 12 to attend Baisakhi festival celebrations. During her visit, she embraced Islam and married a resident of Hingerwal, Lahore, on April 16 at a ceremony held at an Islamic seminary here. She had moved the Lahore High Court on April 21 as her visa was expiring. The high court extended her visa by 30-days and also directed the Pakistan's interior ministry to decide whether she was eligible for the six-month extension as per her application. Approval for the visa extension of the woman was granted yesterday, the Express Tribune reported. Confirming the extension of her visa for next six months, her Pakistani husband Muhammad Azam said ""I will receive the passport and other documents."
167	5	Young refugees find safe haven in Boy Scouts: By Thomas Peipert, Associated Press EVERGREEN — Boy Scouts Jean Tuyishime and Moise Tuyikunde sit around a crackling campfire under a canopy of stars in Colorado’s Rocky Mountains, joking and teasing each other as adolescent brothers tend to do. Only two and a half years ago, they were a world away living at the crowded Gihembe refugee camp, built on a sprawling and dusty expanse of land in northern Rwanda. The brothers were born in the camp after their parents fled violence in 1996 in what was then known as Zaire. They relocated with their family to the Denver area in 2014, and they gradually assimilated into their new surroundings, learning to speak enough English to get by and signing up for a quintessential American experience — Boy Scouts. But the troop Jean, 15, and Moise, 12, joined is not like many others in the United States. Troop 1532 is composed almost entirely of refugees who hail from far-flung places like Burma, Rwanda and Nepal. At campouts, traditional American food like hot dogs and trail burgers is replaced by fish head stew, fire-roasted corn and Chatpate, a popular Nepalese street snack. S’mores are still a staple.
313	6	NI secretary silent on budget for policing Border after Brexit: Northern Ireland secretary Karen Bradley has declined to say if the Police Service of Northern Ireland (PSNI) will receive more money and personnel to police the Border after Brexit when she introduces a budget for the North next week. Ms Bradley told the Northern Ireland Affairs Committee at Westminster that this week’s meeting of the British cabinet at Chequers would address issues that will help determine the nature of the challenges the PSNI will face after Britain leaves the EU. “The budget I’m taking through was put forward in March for the coming year,” she said. “In the normal course of business, spending bids come in and are considered. I’m not making any comment. They are still being considered and it would be inappropriate for me to say anything further. ” Orphaned chief Last week, PSNI chief constable George Hamilton told the committee that he felt orphaned by having nobody in government to liaise with over Brexit. But Ms Bradley said she had arranged for Mr Hamilton to have points of contact in the Treasury and the Department for Exiting the European Union to deal with his concerns. “We accept the PSNI has additional difficulties over other forces; the PSNI is the only force that will have to police a land border – a unique situation in the UK,” she said.
3	4	Girlfriend of illegal immigrant accused in Northland shootings says he could have been stopped: KANSAS CITY, Mo. — A metro woman says her former boyfriend, a man accused of killing a well-known tattoo artist and injuring two others, could have been stopped before lives were lost. Arnoldo Pompa-Rascon is charged with murder and other crimes for random shootings in the Northland. Prosecutors call the 41-year-old a killer, but for a year, Anna Reed called him her boyfriend. Reed said she knew Pompa-Rascon was from Mexico but did not know he was in the country illegally — until he was arrested for murder. “Never in a million years would I expect something like that out of him,” she said. Reed said he was a good guy, good with kids and respectful. “I mean he took care of me. I never wanted for nothing when I was with him,” she said. Until the end of April. Reed said that’s when Pompa-Rascon “lost it” and became mean and violent. On separate occasions she said he held a gun to her head, hit her in the face with a baseball bat and cut her. When asked why Reed didn’t call the police when he beat her up, Reed replied, “Come on, he had a gun to my head at one point, and they didn’t do nothing.
96	6	"Those Affected By Trump's Travel Ban Hope For End To 'Chaos' After Supreme Court Case: At the New York City cell phone shop where he does his homework, nine-year-old Ahmed Alhuthaifi says he misses his mom a lot. ""Sometimes, I feel like I am going to cry,"" he says. ""Trump won't let her in. "" After a years-long effort, his mother, who is stuck in Saudi Arabia, was denied a visa due to President Trump's restrictions on immigration and travel from certain countries, including Yemen. She and Ahmed's four younger siblings, who live with her, missed Ahmed's birthday celebrations on April 3. ""He expected them to be here, all his brothers and sisters; he's depressed all the time,"" says Fathi Alhuthaifi, his father. ""I need my wife and kids. We are in a bad situation. "" On Wednesday, the Supreme Court will hear oral arguments in a case challenging the ban as discriminatory and unconstitutional. Administration lawyers insist the ban, in effect in full since early December, is a national security necessity. Alhuthaifi is an American citizen. He emigrated from Yemen more than 20 years ago and runs a successful cell phone business on West 145th St. in Harlem. He named his youngest son McCain, after the Arizona Republican senator he admires."
24	4	"German coalition is safe despite migration row - Merkel: BERLIN (Reuters) - German Chancellor Angela Merkel played down a bruising dispute about immigration policy with her Bavarian allies, saying in a televised interview on Wednesday that the row did not risk the stability of her coalition government. ""I can't promise that there won't be disputes again about other issues, as this is usual when a government includes three parties,"" Merkel told ARD television when asked if her coalition would a full four years. ""This time it was a heavy dispute about a topic that is also very emotional. But I firmly expect and I'll do my part to ensure that we do our government work in a good way, and not only now but also in the coming years,"" she said."
260	1	Raging #auspol fever hits as Coalition loses its mind over citizenship: It doesn’t really matter which events came in which particular order, because linearity really wasn’t important on Tuesday in Parliament House. All you needed to understand was the raging #auspol fever had descended – the desperate, wild-eyed fever of jockeying and deliberate distraction – thrusting Australian politics into a new level of unhinging. But to comprehend Tuesday, we first need to recap Monday. Barnaby Joyce a New Zealand citizen? That's heart-stopping territory for the Coalition | Katharine Murphy Read more The prime minister’s first resort on Monday was reassurance when it became clear that the deputy prime minister, Barnaby Joyce, would go off to the high court after New Zealand had stretched out its welcoming arms to claim the long lost son of James of Dunedin. (Barnaby’s father would be James Joyce, of course. How on earth could it be otherwise? ) Despite the manifest inconvenience of New Zealand claiming Australia’s deputy prime minister, Turnbull’s line on Joyce was that of calmer-in-chief. This was just a small thing, a bit of housekeeping, an opportunity to pop down to the high court and have the justices clear up a messy and unworkable provision, as one would clear out a pantry stuffed with goods past their use-by date.
374	7	Judge declares mistrial for undocumented immigrant charged in DUI crash: SAN DIEGO (KGTV) - A judge declared a mistrial Monday in the retrial of an undocumented immigrant accused of being the driver in a San Ysidro, California hit-and-run crash which seriously injured a young boy. Constantino Banda Acosta was charged with the crash on May 6, 2017. Investigators said Banda ran a stop sign and crashed his pickup truck into the Lake family’s Honda Accord. 6-year-old Lennox Lake was in a child safety seat at the back of the car. He suffered serious head injuries. Banda left the scene but was arrested about two miles away after Border Patrol agents spotted his damaged truck parked on a street, police said. During Banda's first trial, his passenger, Jorge Adame Ariza, also an undocumented immigrant from Mexico, testified under a grant of immunity during the defendant's two-day preliminary hearing in June that he and Banda had a number of beers that night before the accident. Adame said Banda got into a fight with another man outside a Chula Vista restaurant. Adame told them he picked up Banda but later moved into the passenger seat with Banda behind the wheel during the crash. San Diego police Officer Michael Muniz testified in the first trial that Banda's blood-alcohol content measured .
212	5	Turkish border guards firing at Syrian refugees, says Human Rights Watch: Turkish guards at the border with Syria are indiscriminately shooting at and summarily returning asylum seekers attempting to cross into Turkey, Human Rights Watch said. New York-based Human Rights Watch said Syrians were now fleeing heightened violence in the northwestern province of Idlib to seek refuge near Turkey’s border, which remains closed to all but critical medical cases. Of the 16 Syrian refugees who were smuggled into Turkey last year, 13 said that Turkish border guards shot at them and other asylum seekers as they tried to flee Syria Turkish border guards are firing at the Syrians who attempt to flee the violence and seek refuge in Turkey, an official of the Human Rights Watch said. “Syrian asylum seekers leaving the brutality of Idlib province in northwest Syria are being forced back with bullets and abuse,” CNN quoted Lama Fakih, Deputy Director Human Rights Watch’s the Middle East and North Africa division, as saying on Saturday. About 247,000 Syrians were displaced to the border area from December 15 to January 15, according to the United Nations.”As fighting in Idlib and Afrin displaces thousands more, the number of Syrians trapped along the border willing to risk their lives to reach Turkey is only likely to increase,” Fakih said.
134	6	"No immigration deal near as Trump address, offer are panned: WASHINGTON (AP) — A bipartisan immigration deal between President Donald Trump and Congress is nowhere in sight. Democrats are disparaging Trump's State of the Union remarks as racially divisive, boosting partisan distrust. Trump's offer of ""a down-the-middle compromise"" stands no chance of passing the Republican-led Congress, with even GOP lawmakers demanding changes. It's unclear whether the two parties can reach an election-year pact protecting hundreds of thousands of young immigrants from deportation and sharpening border security. Even the timetable for resolving the dispute is slipping. There are only faint hopes that an agreement can be reached by Feb. 8, when a potential government shutdown would occur unless lawmakers approve spending legislation. No. 2 House Democratic leader Steny Hoyer says, ""If the deadline is Feb. 8, we're not going to make it."""
320	2	I'm the great-great-great-great-grandchild of immigrants - but not everyone in my family wants to hear that history: One evening in mid March, I was part of a full-house audience at the local city council meeting in Eugene, Oregon. On the agenda was an ordinance to prevent the city and police from using its resources to arrest and detain people whose only offense is violating federal immigration laws. I can see how this kind of rule would make the job of law enforcement easier if entire sectors of the community were not afraid to speak to cops. Thirty-five people gave testimony, many of whom identified themselves as immigrants or the children or grandchildren of immigrants. I did not offer my own testimony, but I thought about my most recent ancestor to arrive from another country. His name was Johann. A German farmer and blacksmith, he built a house 11 miles from the house where I grew up in Alabama, and there he legally owned a few slaves. By the 1820s, my great-great-great-great-grandfather Johann and all other branches of my family tree were already in the southeastern United States. By the definitions in OMB Directive 15 — the federal standards for collecting data on race — I am white and non-Hispanic.
442	7	Why citizenship could be a question on the 2020 Census: The Trump administration wants the Census to include a question about citizenship, and Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross has until April 1 to decide if it will. It has been 68 years since the official U. S. Census inquired about citizenship. The question was dropped after 1950, but in December, the Justice Department sent a letter to the Census Bureau requesting the citizenship question in the 2020 Census. The Justice Department said it needs the information to comply with the Voting Rights Act. The department is required to protect voting rights and prevent racial discrimination in the drawing of congressional districts. But it may be enforcement of the National Voter Registration Act, which requires maintenance of accurate voter lists, that will be most affected by the citizenship question. The state of California and the county of Los Angeles are currently being sued by Judicial Watch and the Election Integrity Project California over the failure to maintain accurate and up-to-date voter registration records. Judicial Watch calculated that in Los Angeles County, 144 percent of the citizen voting-age population is registered to vote. Secretary of State Alex Padilla recently told the editorial board of this newspaper that Judicial Watch was using inaccurate population numbers to arrive at that figure.
143	6	US Leaves UN Global Migration Discussions, to Church’s Dismay: A mother and her children are among the world's millions of refugees. (Catholic Relief Services Instagram) US Leaves UN Global Migration Discussions, to Church’s Dismay Pope Francis and the U. S. bishops have called for a robust worldwide response to the international migration crisis, but the Trump administration fears an undermining of national sovereignty. Peter Jesserer Smith WASHINGTON — Global migration has reached historic levels, as an estimated 244 million people — 3% of the global population — are living outside their home countries. Approximately, 60 million migrants include those displaced by wars across the world. However, the U. S. government has opted to withdraw from ongoing United Nations discussions for an international compact on global migration, on the basis that the negotiations to strengthen global governance over the matter were “inconsistent with U. S. law and policy. ” “While we will continue to engage on a number of fronts at the United Nations, in this case, we simply cannot in good faith support a process that could undermine the sovereign right of the United States to enforce our immigration laws and secure our borders,” Secretary of State Rex Tillerson said Dec.
312	8	Niger authorities rescue 92 migrants abandoned in Sahara: NIAMEY: Authorities in Niger rescued 92 West African migrants last week abandoned by traffickers in the Sahara desert as they tried to cross into neighbouring Libya, the International Organization for Migration said on Wednesday. The impoverished West African country is a way station for migrants heading to Europe and some experts believe that more African migrants die in the Sahara than at sea. The 92 migrants, most of them Nigerian, were rescued on Friday by an IOM team and Nigerien soldiers, Giuseppe Loprete, head of the IOM mission in Niger, told Reuters. One of the migrants died shortly after arriving at an IOM facility in the northeastern town of Dirkou, he said. The rest will soon be transferred to Agadez in central Niger before eventually being repatriated to their countries of origin. European countries have promised Niger tens of millions of dollars to combat people smuggling and the IOM said in April that the number of migrants crossing Niger to reach Libya has declined since last year, largely due to a government crackdown. Advertisement Advertisement Even so, many continue to take the risk. More than 40 migrants died of thirst in northern Niger this month and Loprete said that IOM teams are currently searching for another 25 believed to be lost in the desert.
287	8	Bedford mosque raised nearly £4,000 to help Rohingya refugee crisis: Members of the Bedford Central Jammee Masjid & Islamic Cultural Centre have raised £3,646 to support the Rohingya refugee crisis. The fundraiser was supported by the local community in the Midland Road area with hopes the funds will help provide clean water and water for the refugees in Bangldesh. According to Oxfam more than 500,000 Rohingya people have fled Myanmar in recent weeks. According to reports around 1,400 Rohingya children have arrived in Bangladesh near the Myanmar border without their parents, who were either killed or are missing following the violence in Rakhine. A spokesman for the Mosque in Brereton Road, Bedford, said: “Here at the Mosque we felt we needed to do something to help these people. The Masjid congregation supported the appeal generously and have raised £3,646 last Friday after Jumuh Prayer(congregation), at the Bedford Central Jamee Masjid and Islamic Cultural Centre.”
230	5	Letter to editor: Gov. Tom Wolf should close Berks County Residential Center for immigrants: Governor Wolf deserves our support for his actions on prison reform, women’s rights, a fair funding formula for education, and more. One of his first acts in office was to extend medical insurance to over 700,000 low-income Pennsylvanians by accepting Medicaid Expansion under the Affordable Care Act. In his first year in office he issued executive orders that expanded LGBTQ rights, protected Planned Parenthood, and raised the minimum wage for state employees. Governor Wolf has resisted Republican efforts to block the resettlement of Syrian refugees in the commonwealth; and he has been outspoken in his support for DACA and for Dreamers. Then why won’t he use his authority to close the prison for immigrant families in Berks County? He can do that. Berks County owns and operates the Berks County Residential Center (BCRC), which is used by Immigration and Customs Enforcement, or ICE, to detain immigrant families; the vast majority of them are seeking asylum in this country after fleeing extreme violence or persecution. They can do so legally under U. S. and international law. These families have not been accused of a crime, they’re not flight risks, or threats to the community.
341	4	"Trump Brands Migrant Caravan a ‘Disgrace,’ Orders Homeland Security Officials to Turn Away Immigrants at Border: President Donald Trump ordered Department of Homeland Security officials to turn away the roughly 50 immigrants who managed to reach the southern border after traveling in a caravan of nearly 1,500 people. In a series of Monday morning tweets, the president said he'd told Secretary of Homeland Security Kirstjen Nielsen to block the migrants from entry. ""It is a disgrace,"" he wrote. ""We are the only Country in the World so naive! WALL. ""Mexico, whose laws on immigration are very tough, must stop people from going through Mexico and into the U. S. ,"" Trump continued. ""We may make this a condition of the new NAFTA Agreement. Our Country cannot accept what is happening! Also, we must get Wall funding fast. "" Mexico, whose laws on immigration are very tough, must stop people from going through Mexico and into the U. S. We may make this a condition of the new NAFTA Agreement. Our Country cannot accept what is happening! Also, we must get Wall funding fast. — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 23, 2018 Mexican officials made efforts to break up the caravan earlier this month, stopping the group of migrants—who were traveling together to mitigate some of the dangers typically associated with a journey to the United States-Mexico border—in Oaxaca."
247	7	Spain blames computer glitch for huge citizenship application backlog: In Madrid, people wait for their Spanish nationality applications to be processed. The Spanish administration’s drive to digitalize its services has had an unexpected effect on thousands of immigrants in Spain. In 2012, the government launched the Intensive Nationality Plan, which can now only be accessed online in order to speed up citizenship application processing times. In the US it is hard to obtain citizenship, but once you meet the requirements everything goes much faster Omar Shanaa Yet in 2017 there were 78% fewer processed requests than in 2016, while applications only declined 19% over the same period. Sources at the Justice Ministry are blaming a computer glitch for the dramatic decline in processed applications. “The reduction is due to a migration of the computer application, which has taken longer than expected and pushed everything back,” said a ministry source. But applicants are skeptical and concerned. “I’ve been waiting nearly four years,” says Rosemary Moraes, a 51-year-old from Brazil who has been living in Madrid for a decade and who applied for Spanish citizenship in December 2014. “I don’t think it should take this long to deal with a case. I feel frustrated.
423	8	Kerala govt to bring out ‘Hamari Malayalam’ textbook for migrants: The Kerala State Literacy Mission Authority is all set to release a textbook exclusively to teach migrant labourers Malayalam, the mother tongue of the people of the state. The state government initiative is expected to be a boon for around 25 lakh workers, who migrated to Kerala from other states, including West Bengal, Bihar, Assam, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Odisha, Tamil Nadu. Titled ‘Hamari Malayalam’ (Our Malayalam), the textbook will be launched by state Education Minister C Raveendranath at Perumbavoor in Ernakulam district, a town with largest migrant labour population in the state. Literacy Mission Director P S Sreekala said the book has been designed in such a way that migrant labourers can interact with local people freely and fluently in their daily life. The textbook would be used under ‘Changathi’, the Mission’s exclusive programme for migrant workers, she said. “Our core objective is to make migrant labourers competent in reading and writing Malayalam. Many of them can already speak broken Malayalam,” Sreekala told PTI. Though migrant workers have been playing a key role in many sectors in the state, they are still facing exclusion in society, she said. “By teaching them Malayalam, we are aiming to end this social exclusion,” she said.
86	8	Another Federal Judge Rules Against Trump's Order To Cancel DACA: A third federal judge ruled on Tuesday against the Trump administration’s decision to end the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program. In September, President Donald Trump canceled the Obama-era DACA program, which shields undocumented immigrants who arrived in the U. S. as youths from deportation. But in a stinging rebuke of the Trump administration’s legal logic, U. S. District Judge John Bates described the program’s cancellation as “arbitrary and capricious because the Department [of Homeland Security] failed adequately to explain its conclusion that the program was unlawful. ” “Neither the meager legal reasoning nor the assessment of litigation risk provided by DHS to support its rescission decision is sufficient to sustain termination of the DACA program,” Bates wrote in the opinion. The ruling has no immediate effect, and the decision to cancel DACA has already been stalled by a nationwide injunction. Bates’ ruling is unique, however, because it opens the possibility that U. S. Citizenship and Immigration Services might have to start accepting new DACA applications. The current injunctions only require the federal government to renew the applications of people who have already been approved for the program. Bates gave the Department of Homeland Security another 90 days to give a better explanation for canceling the program before moving forward with the decision.
250	7	60 migrants refused by Italy and Malta arrive in Barcelona | The Tribune: In this photo taken on Monday, July 2, 2018, migrant women look at a crew's computer aboard the Open Arms aid boat, of Proactiva Open Arms Spanish NGO. Spain's government said Barcelona will be the docking port for the aid boat traveling with 60 migrants rescued on Saturday in waters near Libya and rejected by both Italy and Malta.
155	8	"For Syrian Refugees In Turkey, A Long Road To Regular Employment: In a neighborhood of Istanbul that's plastered with Arabic signs, a Syrian refugee whips up his specialty — avocado cream smoothies — at the small, colorful cafe where he works. Majd al-Hassan has been in Turkey for two years, but has yet to learn much Turkish. He doesn't need to. This area is filled with fellow Syrians. He's paid in cash, under the table, and has yet to really integrate into Turkish society, he acknowledges. ""We've got Syrian supermarkets, Syrian restaurants — just like back home,"" says Hassan, 26. ""I haven't even applied for a Turkish ID card. If peace comes to Syria, I'll go home tomorrow."" Nearby, a resident who describes herself as one of the last Turks living on this street near Istanbul's Fatih Mosque says she no longer recognizes her neighborhood. ""Before, this area was only Turkish people, mostly. But now, here, there, everywhere, it's all Syrian people,"" says Tulay Suleyman, who was born here. ""Some Turkish people, they don't like these [new] people. Their culture is a little bit different than ours. [They're] mostly ignorant people — homeless people, low-class."" Xenophobia has flared with the arrival of migrants in parts of Europe."
182	8	Spain-Morocco image on border: Home Ministry orders probe: The image used by the Home Ministry in its annual report was of the Spain-Morocco border, instead of the Indo-Pak border. (Source: panoramio. com) The image used by the Home Ministry in its annual report was of the Spain-Morocco border, instead of the Indo-Pak border. (Source: panoramio. com) The Union Home Ministry has ordered an internal probe into the use of a picture of the Spain-Morocco border to show floodlighting at the Indian border, ANI has reported. Under the section which talked about the work done and pending with respect to floodlighting on the India-Pakistan border in the Home Ministry’s annual report, the photograph was shown with the misleading caption that said “floodlighting along the border” with no mention of the Spain-Morocco border suggesting that the picture was of the Indian border. After the gaffe was reported, higher-ups in the Home Ministry sprung into action. Home Secretary Rajiv Mehrishi has said that if the ministry finds a mistake they will apologise for it. “If there is a mistake, we will apologise,” Mehrishi sad. A screenshot of the border picture from the Home Ministry’s annual report 2016-17. A screenshot of the border picture from the Home Ministry’s annual report 2016-17.
75	7	How National Register of Citizens is being updated to check illegal immigration in Assam: A massive exercise of updating the National Register of Citizens is being carried out in Assam. It was resolved in 2005 that the list of the state’s citizens, which was first made in 1951, will be updated. The exercise started as late as 2015 under the Congress regime, but it got a significant push only after the BJP rode to power with illegal immigration as a poll plank. While authorities are working to ensure only Indian citizens are enrolled in the NRC, many are facing a hard time proving their citizenship, fuelling fears of deportation. Every applicant and each of his/her family member must establish a link to an ancestor/parent/grandparent whose name appears in the NRC of 1951 or any electoral roll up to 1971, or any one of 12 other documents issued before March 25, 1971. Earlier in December, a father of seven, Anowar Hussain, allegedly committed suicide, fearing that his 9-year-old daughter would be deported to Bangladesh. He received a notice from the NRC Sewa Kendra asking him to furnish a birth certificate for his daughter, Jahanara Khatun. Without a document showing her proof of birth, Khatun would have been ineligible for inclusion in the NRC.
499	4	The New Effects of Immigration: The chief of police in Whitewater, Wisconsin, didn’t ask for the moon in late 2023 when he wrote to President Joe Biden about the hundreds of new Nicaraguan migrants who’d arrived in his city over a whirlwind span of two years. All of a sudden, he wrote, his 23 sworn officers were dealing with three times the number of drivers without licenses on local roads. Biden administration officials didn’t get back to the chief for almost two months.
481	3	Navarrette: 3 immigration ‘solutions’: half-baked, hateful and hideous - and this new one: SAN DIEGO — No matter which political party they hail from, immigration “solutions” usually come in three varieties: half-baked, hateful and hideous. You’ll find all of the above as Americans from across the fruited plain refuse to let their ignorance about the issue stop them from putting in their 2 cents about how to solve the crisis at hand: wanton separation of families at the U.S.-Mexico border. People also have lots to say about the bigger issue — how to secure the border, legalize the undocumented, provide a workforce to do jobs that Americans think are beneath them, etc. Everyone is an engineer, convinced that their plan is best. A reader asked: “What are your ideas regarding this issue?” Another demanded to know: “TALK IS CHEAP, doesn’t cost a [expletive] thing. What is your fix to ILLEGAL immigration?” Another said: “I would find it helpful to read your thoughts on how to handle the situation at our border.” Get editorials, opinion columns, letters to the editor and more in your inbox weekday mornings. Sign up for the Opinion newsletter. I am often asked for my own solution, and I hate it. While it’s true that my vision is clearer than most because I’m not beholden to either political party, my ideas are no more valuable than anyone else’s.
129	8	"Australia offering $25,000 to asylum seekers on Manus Island to return home: Authorities at the Manus Island detention centre in Papua New Guinea are reportedly offering asylum seekers large sums of money to return to their home countries. At least a dozen asylum seekers from Nepal and Bangladesh at the detention centre said that they are being called to meet Australian officials and are being pressured to take up to $25,000 (£20,000). According to Reuters, one of the detainees named Mohammed Bilal, who fled Bangladesh due to political reasons, had met Australian officials last week. ""They told me and others that if you go back voluntarily you will get money about $20,000, if you guys go in group you will get more money,"" Bilal said. It is not illegal for countries to provide refugees with financial assistance to voluntarily return to the home countries and start afresh. The Australian immigration department in a statement said: ""Substantial assistance packages are available to help non-refugees depart voluntarily, return home and re-establish their lives in their home country. In cases where non-refugees refuse to depart voluntarily, the government of PNG [Papua New Guinea] has indicated that it will enforce the removal of those individuals, in accordance with normal international practice."
395	7	"Students rally to save seats: Campaign calls for College to lower barriers for Syrian refugees: Students rally to save seats: Campaign calls for College to lower barriers for Syrian refugees This past week, the Books Not Bombs campaign at the College of William and Mary launched a week of events in partnership with Amnesty International to urge the College to ""save seats"" for Syrian refugees in the undergraduate admissions process. COURTESY PHOTO / NAIRUTI SHASTRY Sunday, April 16, students gathered on the Sunken Garden for the Rise for Refugees Vigil, ending a week of events designed to encourage College of William and Mary students to support “saving a seat” for students displaced by conflict in Syria. This week was in support of Books Not Bombs, a growing campaign at the College. In an event advertised as a vigil, students gathered to demonstrate what saving a seat would actually look like. Nairuti Shastry ’17, the founder of the College’s Books Not Bombs campaign, got her inspiration for the initiative while studying abroad in Belgium. There, she worked with primarily disadvantaged, Middle Eastern populations, many of whom were refugees. After a terrorist attack in Belgium, she said that many of the people she was working with changed how they treated the disadvantaged populations, which upset her because she was working with an organization that highlighted values such as diversity and inclusion."
21	7	Immigrants beware: Marijuana may be legal in California, but it could get you deported: It’s legal in California, but marijuana possession and use is still a federal offense that could cause serious problems for immigrants in the Golden State. “It is still a federal offense,” said Inland-based attorney Russell Jauregui. “Federal law controls immigration and thus people will still face severe immigration consequences for marijuana conviction/use. ” Undocumented immigrants can be deported for marijuana consumption in certain circumstances and may risk not being admitted back into the United States if they leave. Immigrant rights activists and attorneys are reminding immigrants of potential consequences at a time when President Donald Trump is ramping up deportation efforts. The White House has said that any immigrant living in the U. S. illegally who has been charged or convicted of any crime, or even suspected of committing a crime, is now an enforcement priority. Virginia Kice, a spokeswoman with the U. S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, or ICE, declined to say how the agency deals with immigrants accused or convicted of marijuana crimes in states where it’s legal. Instead, she reiterated the Department of Homeland Security’s focus on targeting all “removable aliens” who have committed crimes, beginning with those who have been convicted of a criminal offense.
500	8	Trump is using the Alien Enemies Act to deport immigrants – but the 18th-century law has been invoked only during times of war: As President Donald Trump often promised during his 2024 presidential campaign, on March 15, 2025, he invoked an obscure 18th-century law called the Alien Enemies Act to justify deporting 137 Venezuelans he says are associated with a Venezuelan gang. A federal judge swiftly blocked the deportations and ordered the planes carrying Venezuelans heading to El Salvador to return. But the White House said that the court order came too late on a Saturday night, after it had already sent the Venezuelan immigrants to El Salvador.
317	6	"Trump hosts Hispanic Heritage event as his administration begins phasing out DACA protections for young immigrants: On the same day his administration stopped accepting applications from so-called Dreamers for protection from deportation, President Trump on Friday welcomed Latino American leaders to the White House to honor their cultural heritage in observance of Hispanic Heritage Month. In rambling remarks, Trump said the United States remains ""a beacon"" to people of other nations and lauded young attendees for the contributions they would make to the nation -- notes at odds with his restrictive immigration talk and policies, including the phase-out of the Deferred Action for Childhoood Arrivals program. Trump did not mention his decision, which took effect at midnight, to shut down DACA. Since 2012, the Obama-era program has given temporary legal status, for two years at a time, to some 800,000 people brought to the country illegally as children. Nearly 90% of DACA beneficiaries are Latino. Nor did Trump take the opportunity to renew his call for Congress to act to make those protections permanent by writing them into law. As of Friday, the government stopped taking applications for new or renewed two-year work permits and deportation deferrals under DACA. Existing permits begin expiring on March 6, 2018. At one point, Trump pointed to members of a youth orchestra from Miami and said, ""There is no task too large and no dream beyond your reach."
379	8	Hungary to recruit THOUSANDS of ‘BORDER-HUNTERS’ to defend border: Several high quality marketing videos showing border agents in helicopters and speed boats have been released to attract applicants by the nation’s border agency force. Viktor Orban the Hungarian Prime Minister told successful applicants they will “protect Hungary’s borders, Hungarian homes and be defending Europe”. GETTY*HATARVADASZ Viktor Orban is pouring resources into border patrols to stop migrants There is no terrorism here, there is no mass violence, there are no trucks being driven into crowds of people Viktor Orban, Hungarian Prime Minister He said: “There is no terrorism here, there is no mass violence, there are no trucks being driven into crowds of people. But please do not forget that this does not mean that such atrocities cannot happen to us Hungarians. ” New cadets will be asked to defend the 175km long Hungary-Serbia border fence. The border hunters will be tasked with stopping the migrants that cross the fence every night. HATARVADASZ Applications are still being accepted for the Hungarian border patrol units The border-hunters receive normal police training, including firearms use, with extra modules about Islam and other cultures they might come into contact with. Orban added: “The truth is that Europe would have been better off if it had not attacked Hungarian responses, which have proved to be viable and useful, and which have since been adopted by an increasing number of other countries.
292	9	Immigrants Make Up More Than One Third of All Suicides in Israel: Immigrants account for about a third of all suicides in Israel every year, but many still lack access to emotional assistance in... subscribe now to get the full story Subscribe Log in Haaretz unlimited. Only 1$ for the first month
98	5	"Pope calls for Catholics to take in Muslim refugees sparks backlash from Polish priest: A priest has been branded “deplorable” after calling for Pope Francis to have a quick death Father Edward Staniek, a Parish priest in the southern city of Krakow, launched into an angry tirade at Pope Francis after the Pope called for Catholics to take in Muslim refugees because it is their Christian duty. In a sermon on February 25 Father Staniek said: “I pray for the Pope in his wisdom to open his heart to the Holy Spirit, but if he does not, I pray for his quick departure to his Father’s house. ""I can always ask God for a happy death for him because a happy death is a great grace. ” Father Staniek added that there was no dialogue with Muslims and that the “doors to the diocese and parish are open only to believers in Jesus Christ. ” But after his speech, Krakow’s Archbishop Marek Jedraszewski said that he heard about the deporable comments with ""great pain and regret"". The archbishop said that he had discussed them face-to-face with Father Staniek and urged the Vatican to dismiss the comments, adding that the Krakow diocese was actually praying “with the best intentions” every day for Pope Francis."
311	7	"Macron warns EU over Africa migrant centre plans: news French President Emmanuel Macron has warned the European Union, EU, against plans to set up migrant centre plans in some African countries. In a report by BBC, Macron said that the EU plans to create migrant processing centres in North Africa will not work unless the process is led by African countries. During his visit to Nigeria, the French President also gave reasons the migrant processing centres creation will not work in Africa. The idea of migrant processing centres in North Africa ""can fly, just if some African governments decide to organise it"", he said. Macron reportedly said many African countries were worried that such centres would act as a pull factor for migrants. He had earlier told EU leaders that France would not host migrant processing centres as it was not a country where immigrants landed but Italian Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte said the centres could be anywhere in the EU. At the moment, no African country has agreed to host the centres as proposed by the European Union. Macron’s take on migration to Europe Macron told BBC that Europe would be dealing with migration from Africa for decades due to the fundamental problem of unplanned population growth in Africa."
472	6	New Yorkers protest Trump’s ‘un-American’ immigration ban: Thousands of people rallied in Lady Liberty’s shadow in Manhattan on Sunday to denounce President Trump’s “un-American” ban targeting Middle Eastern immigrants. The massive protest began at Battery Park in Lower Manhattan on Sunday afternoon within sight of the Statue of Liberty, America’s symbol of freedom and its embracing of immigrants. At least five people were arrested for blocking traffic, police sources said. The New York protest was among dozens that broke out across the nation in response to Trump’s executive order that shut America’s door to newcomers from Syria, Yemen, Sudan, Somalia, Iraq, Iran and Libya. At least 10,000 demonstrators to the streets of Manhattan on Sunday, according to the Mayor de Blasio’s office. “Trump’s executive order is unconstitutional, illegal, un-American and stupid!” US Rep. Jerry Nadler (D-Manhattan/Brooklyn) told protesters Sunday. “This is meant to be a ban on Muslims.” The New York protesters chanted, “When refugees are under attack, stand up, fight back!” “Hey Trump, hey [Vice President Mike] Pence, we’re all immigrants here!” and “Hey, hey, ho, ho, Donald Trump has got to go!” The most popular signs were included “The president is un-American,” “Tiny hands, huuuuge mistake” and “No ban, no wall,” in reference to Trump’s multibillion-dollar plans to beef up walls across the US-Mexico border.
291	8	"Polish Leader Doubles Down on Anti-migrant Stance During Speech at Aushwitz: Critics denounced Poland's prime minister for making comments during a memorial observance at Auschwitz on Wednesday that appeared to defend her tough anti-migrant policies, saying her words were inappropriate given the location. Beata Szydlo said that ""in today's restless times, Auschwitz is a great lesson showing that everything must be done to protect the safety and life of one's citizens."" The remark was widely understood as a defense of her conservative government's refusal to accept refugees as part of a European Union resettlement plan, a position that prompted the European Commission to launch legal action this week against her government. The Commission also took action against the Czech Republic and Hungary. Szydlo's ruling party, Law and Justice, initially tweeted her remark but removed the tweet as people expressed shock, accusing her of abusing political memory for political gain. ""Auschwitz must remind us of the need to defend universal human rights, not closing borders to refugees!"" said Rafal Pankowski, the head of Never Again, an organization that fights neo-Nazism and other forms of extremism. Keep updated: Sign up to our newsletter Email * Please enter a valid email address Sign up Please wait… Thank you for signing up."
253	5	Migrant Clashes in French City Lead to More Police, and Fears of More Violence: It remained unclear on Friday how the brawl started, but the police were searching for a 37-year-old Afghan suspected of having fired first at a group of Eritreans, according to news reports. “We stopped everything, the police came quickly, and everyone got scattered amid tear gas,” said François Guennoc of the Migrants’ Hostel charity, describing how more than 100 migrants from Africa, armed with iron rods and sticks, had tried to beat a group of 20 Afghans during a food distribution. Human rights workers said that tensions have increased as migrants have seen their chances of reaching Britain from Calais whittled by a tougher stance by the French and British governments. In mid-January, Prime Minister Theresa May of Britain agreed during a meeting with France’s president, Emmanuel Macron, that the British government would pay an additional $62 million to step up security measures around Calais. Yet, organizations say, at least 200 more migrants, mostly young men from Eritrea, have reached Calais since that meeting, where Mr. Macron and Ms. May announced an accord that aimed to reduce the time unaccompanied minors spent there. “They mistakenly thought that they could reach Britain more easily,” Mr.
70	7	"UK tourism body calls for visa-free EU travel after Brexit: LONDON Britain should aim to secure visa-free travel between the UK and the European Union in upcoming negotiations to leave the bloc, an association of travel agents said on Tuesday, adding that a transitional deal could also help the sector. Britain formally began its divorce from the European Union last Wednesday, and airlines have demanded that their sector is prioritised in the forthcoming two years of negotiations to ensure there is no disruption to flights. The Association of British Travel Agents (ABTA) said the maintenance of visa-free travel between the EU and UK after Brexit was among its key priorities. Other goals for ABTA included the protection of Britons' ability to travel freely to Europe and beyond and safeguards for consumer rights, as well as stability and growth opportunities for British businesses. ""Travel and tourism is one of the UK's largest industries and it is vital that the Government makes sure it can continue to thrive during and after the negotiations,"" said Mark Tanzer, Chief Executive of ABTA. The trade body also said a transitional arrangement may be needed, to give consumers certainty given that some holidays are sold a year and a half in advance."
